
10-K
1
acu_10k123117.htm
10-K



     









UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K





    [X]
    ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF

    
    THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

    
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017

    
    

    
    OR

    
    

    [_]
    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF

    
    THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934




Commission file number 01-07698

ACME UNITED CORPORATION

Exact name of registrant as specified
in its charter





    Connecticut
    06-0236700

    (State or other jurisdiction of
    (I.R.S. Employer

    incorporation or organization)
    Identification No.)

    
    

    55 Walls Drive
                                                           Fairfield, Connecticut
    06824

    (Address of principal executive offices)
     (Zip Code)








Registrant's telephone
number, including area code (203) 254-6060



Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Act:





    Title of each class
    Name of each exchange on which registered


    $2.50 par value Common Stock
    NYSE American








Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:
None



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule405 of the Securities Act. YES [_]NO [X]



Indicate by check mark if the registrant
is not required to file reports pursuant to Section13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. YES [_]NO [X]



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(l) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

YES
[X]NO [_]



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted
and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (sec. 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). YES
[X]NO [_]




    1
    
    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure
of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (sec. 229.405) is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [_]







Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of
large accelerated filer, accelerated filer and smaller reporting company in Rule12b-2
of the Exchange Act (Check one).





Large accelerated filer
[_]Accelerated filer [X]Non-accelerated filer
[_]Smaller reporting company [_]

Emerging
growth company [_]




If an emerging growth company, indicate by
check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial
accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(s) of the Exchange Act. [_]



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). YES [_]NO [X]



The aggregate market value of the voting
and non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of the last business day of the registrants most recently
completed second fiscal quarter was $84,519,435.



Registrant had 3,374,061 shares of its
$2.50 par value Common Stock outstanding as of March 3, 2018.



Documents Incorporated By Reference



(1) Certain
portions of the Companys Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting scheduled for April 23, 2018 are incorporated into the Companys
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, in Part III.






    2
    
    





    
    
    
    

    
    
    
        Page
    

    Part I
    
    
    

    
    
    

    Item 1. Business
    
    4
    

    
    
    

    Item1A. Risk Factors
    
    7
    

    
    
    

    Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
    
    13
    

    
    
    

    Item 2. Properties
    
    13
    

    
    
    

    Item 3. Legal Proceedings
    
    13
    

    
    
    

    Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
    
    13
    

    
    
    

    Part II
    
    
    

    
    
    

    Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
    
    14
    

    
    
    

    Item 6. Selected Financial Data
    
    16
    

    
    
    

    Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    
    16
    

    
    
    

    Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
    
    23
    

    
    
    

    Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
    
    24
    

    
    
    

    Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
    
    49
    

    
    
    

    Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
    
    49
    

    
    
    
    

    Item 9B. Other Information
    
    49
    

    
    
    

    Part III
    
    
    

    
    
    

    Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
    
    50
    

    
    
    

    Item 11. Executive Compensation
    
    52
    

    
    
    

    Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
    
    52
    

    
    
    

    Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
    
    52
    

    
    
    
    
    
    

    Item14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
    
    52
    

    
    
    

    Part IV
    
    
    

    
    
    

    Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
    
    52
    

    
    
    

    Signatures
    
    56
    







    3
    
    



PART I



Item 1. Business



Overview

Acme United Corporation, a Connecticut
corporation (together, with its subsidiaries, the "Company"), is a leading worldwide supplier of innovative cutting,
measuring, first aid and sharpening products to the school, home, office, hardware, sporting goods and industrial markets. The
Company's operations are in the United States, Canada, Europe (located in Germany) and Asia (located in Hong Kong and China). The
operations in the United States, Canada and Europe are primarily involved in product development, marketing, sales, administrative,
manufacturing and distribution activities. The operations in Asia consist of sourcing, product development, production planning,
quality control and sales activities. Total net sales in 2017 were $130.6 million. The Company was organized as a partnership in
l867 and incorporated in l882 under the laws of the State of Connecticut.



The Company has grouped
its operations into three reportable segments based on the Companys geographical organization and structure: (1)
United States (which includes its Asian operations); (2) Canada; and (3) Europe. Net sales in 2017 for each of our segments
were: United States (including direct import sales from Asia) - $115.5 million, Europe - $8.2 million and Canada - $6.9
million. Principal products across all segments are scissors, shears, knives, rulers, pencil sharpeners, first aid kits, and
safety related products. We sell our products primarily to wholesale, contract and retail stationery distributors, office
supply super stores, mass market and e-commerce retailers, industrial distributors, school supply distributors, drug store
retailers, sporting goods stores, hardware chains and wholesale florists. Refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional segment information.

The Company sources most of its products
from suppliers located outside the United States, primarily in Asia. The Company assembles its first aid kits at its facilities
in Vancouver, WA and Rocky Mount, NC. The components for the first aid kits are primarily sourced from U.S. suppliers.



Business Strategy

The Companys business strategy
includes the following key elements:




a commitment to technological innovation achieved through consumer insight, creativity and speed to market;


a broad selection of products in both brand and private label;


prompt response;


superior customer service; and


value pricing.



Purchase of Property

On October 26, 2017, the Company exercised
its option to purchase its First Aid Only manufacturing and distribution center in Vancouver, WA for $4.0 million. The property
consists of 53,000 square feet of office, manufacturing, and warehouse space on 2.86 acres. The purchase was financed by a variable rate mortgage with HSBC Bank, N.A. at an interest rate of LIBOR
plus 2.5%.



Acquisitions

On February 1, 2017 the Company acquired the
assets of Spill Magic, Inc. (Spill Magic), for $7.2 million in cash. The Spill Magic products are leaders in absorbents
that encapsulate spills into dry powders that can be safely disposed. Many large retail chains use Spill Magic products to remove
liquids from broken glass containers, oil and gas spills, bodily fluids, and solvents. The easy-to-use and environmentally friendly
products permanently absorb the spills, leaving the floors underneath dry and reducing injuries from falls. The Spill Magic product
line also includes spill clean-up kits and blood borne pathogen kits for the safety market.




    4
    
    



On February 1, 2016, the Company acquired the
principal assets of Vogel Capital, Inc., d/b/a Diamond Machining Technology (DMT) based in Marlborough, MA for $7.0
million in cash. The DMT products are leaders in sharpening tools for knives, scissors, chisels, and other cutting tools. They
complement the Companys existing brands and products within the industrial, hardware, floral, food preparation and sporting
goods markets.



Principal Products

The Company markets and sells under three
main categories  School, Home and Office (Westcott brand), First Aid & Safety (First Aid Only, PhysiciansCare,
Pac-Kit and Spill Magic brands), and Hardware, Industrial and Sporting Goods (Clauss, Camillus, Cuda and
DMT brands).



School, Home and Office

Westcott

Westcott, with a history of quality dating
back to 1872, provides innovative cutting and measuring products for the school, home and office. Principal products under the
Westcott brand include scissors, rulers, pencil sharpeners, paper trimmers, lettering products and math tools. It is one of the
leading scissor and ruler brands in North America. The iPoint pencil sharpener, introduced in 2008, and its successor, the iPoint
Evolution, have won GOOD DESIGN awards from the Chicago Athenaeum, Museum of Architecture and Design.



Many of the Westcott branded cutting
products contain patented titanium bonding and proprietary non-stick coatings, making the blades more than three times harder than
stainless steel as well as reducing friction and corrosion. Significant product introductions in 2015 included a Carbo titanium
line of scissors which are 8x harder than steel allowing the blades to stay shaper longer. Westcott also launched a line of safety
ceramic utility cutters for use in home and office. Significant product introductions in 2016 included our new line of ergonomic
scissors for children designed in tandem with the U.S. Ergonomics Institute. Significant product introductions in 2017 included
Westcott hot glue guns and glue pen line which feature ergonomic triggers and handles. The glue guns also feature a safety and
performance tip that turns red when hot and blue when cool. They were a winner of the 2017 GOOD DESIGN award.

First Aid & Safety

First Aid Only

The First Aid Only brand offers first
aid kits, refills, and safety products that meet regulatory requirements for a broad range of industries. The Smart Compliance
first aid system is an effective technique for maintaining OSHA compliance. Our SafetyHub App technology streamlines the inspection
and replenishment process for a broad range of Safety products and provides data analytics to optimize costs.



Pac-Kit

The Pac-Kit brand offers first aid kits,
industrial stations and refills, emergency medical travel and recreational kits for the industrial, safety, transportation and
marine markets. The brand has a long history dating back to the 19th century. Although Pac-Kits products are similar to
the PhysiciansCare brand, the Pac-Kit brand is especially known for its customized products which are designed to meet customer
specifications.



PhysiciansCare

The PhysiciansCare brand offers a wide
assortment of first aid kits, emergency and disaster kits, kit refills, hearing, eye, and head protection, as well as ergonomic
supports and braces. PhysiciansCare also carries a branded line of over-the counter medications, including the active ingredients
aspirin, acetaminophen and ibuprofen.



Spill Magic

The Spill Magic brand is a leader in absorbents
that encapsulate spills into dry powders that can safely be disposed. The spill response system reduces
slip & fall accidents in their locations, including grocery, retail, big box and other stores; food service & hotel chains;
municipalities; and industry-specific distributors in the U.S. and Europe. Acquired in February 2017, we introduced additional
Spill Magic products in 2017, including clean-up kits for bodily fluids and blood-borne pathogens.




    5
    
    



Hardware, Industrial and Sporting
Goods

Clauss

Clauss, with its roots dating back to
1877, offers a line of quality cutting tools for professionals in the hardware & industrial, lawn & garden, food processing,
sewing and housewares channels. Many of the Clauss products are enhanced with the Companys patented titanium and proprietary
non-stick coatings.







Camillus

Since 1876 Camillus has been supplying
the world with innovative and high quality knives. The Camillus brand has a strong heritage in the hunting, sporting and tactical
markets. The Company acquired the brand in 2007 and re-launched it in 2009 with an updated and innovative line of fixed blade,
folding knives, line of sight cutting tools and tactical tools. Many of the knives are enhanced with Titanium Carbonitride coatings
to increase the hardness of the blade of up to 10 times that of untreated stainless steel.



In 2014, Camillus launched a wide variety of
new products, including the Camillus Carnivore X machete, Ravenous tomahawk, Heat Sizzle and WildFire knives and the Trench multi
tool. In 2015, Camillus introduced Glide, its first pocket sharpener. In 2016, Camillus launched a new line of assisted folding
knives using its patented linkage system and its ball-bearing assisted system. In 2017, Camillus introduced a new line of knives
and tools featuring the Prym1 camouflage providing patterns that are both aesthetically desirable and also functional in the field.
In addition, Camillus launched a line of knives and tools called Line Of Sight. Line of Sight tools provide the consumer
with cutting tools to clear shooting lanes during hunting season.



Cuda

We launched the Cuda line of fishing tools
and knives in 2014. Featuring titanium bonded German steels and alloys, Cuda tools provide world class hardness, corrosion and
adhesive resistance. In July of 2014, Cuda won Best of Show in the Fish Smart category at the ICast show in Orlando,
Florida. In January 2016, Cuda won six GOOD DESIGN awards from the Chicago Athenaeum, Museum of Architecture and Design. In 2017,
Cuda launched a line of cut and puncture resistant gloves which feature quadruple layered Kevlar and a line of telescopic
landing nets featuring replaceable nets and a net containment system.



DMT

DMT products are leaders in diamond sharpening
tools for knives, scissors, chisels, skis, skates and many other edges that require sharpening. DMT was founded in 1976 by aerospace
engineers. The DMT products use a proprietary process of finely dispersed diamonds bonded to the surfaces of sharpeners and are
recognized for providing diamond sharpeners with the flattest sharpening surface, greatest concentrated amount of diamonds and
the highest quality diamonds per sharpener. In 2017, DMT launched 12 new diamond sharpeners that include a gear-driven sharpener,
sonic sharpener and pull through sharpeners that provide a simple sharpening solution for beginners as well as sharpening enthusiast.



Product Development 

Our strong commitment to understanding our
consumers and defining products that fulfill their needs through innovation drives our product development strategy, which we believe
is and will be a key contributor to our success. The Company incurred research and development costs of $752,000 in 2017 and $750,000
in 2016.



Intellectual Property

The Company owns many patents and trademarks
that are important to its business. The Companys success depends in part on its ability to maintain patent protection for
its products, to preserve its proprietary technology and to operate without infringing upon the patents or proprietary rights of
others. The Company generally files patent applications in the United States and foreign countries where patent protection for
its technology is appropriate and available. The Company also considers its trademarks important to the success of its business.
The more significant trademarks include Westcott, Clauss, Camillus, PhysiciansCare, First Aid Only, Cuda, DMT, Pac-Kit and Spill
Magic. Patents and trademarks are amortized over their estimated useful lives. The weighted average amortization period remaining
for intangible assets at December 31, 2017 was 10 years.




    6
    
    



Product Distribution; Major Customers

Independent
manufacturer representatives and direct sales are primarily used to sell the Companys line of consumer products to
wholesale, contract and retail stationery distributors, office supply super stores, school supply distributors, industrial
distributors, wholesale florists, mass market and ecommerce retailers and hardware chains (including through their websites).
The Company also sells a limited selection of its products directly to consumers through its own websites. In each 2017 and
2016, the Company had two customers that individually exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales. In 2017, net sales to these
customers amounted to approximately 16% and 11%, respectively, of consolidated net sales, and approximately 14% and 11%,
respectively, for each in 2016.





Competition

The Company competes with many companies
in each market and geographic area. The Company believes that the principal points of competition in these markets are product
innovation, quality, price, merchandising, design and engineering capabilities, product development, timeliness and completeness
of delivery, conformity to customer specifications and post-sale support. The major competitors in the cutting category are 3M
and Fiskars Corporation. The major competitors in the measuring category are Maped and Staedtler. The major competitor in the pencil
sharpener category is Bostitch. The major competitors in the first aid & safety category are Honeywell, 3M and Johnson &
Johnson.



Seasonality

Traditionally, the Companys sales
are stronger in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year due to the seasonal nature of the back-to-school business.



Compliance with Environmental Laws


The Company believes that it is in compliance
with applicable environmental laws. The Company anticipates that no material adverse financial impact will result from compliance
with current environmental rules and regulations.



Employees 

As of December 31, 2017, the Company employed
421 people, all of whom are full time and none of whom is covered by union contracts. Employee relations are considered good and
no foreseeable problems with the work force are evident.



Available Information



The Company files
its annual reports on Form10-K, quarterly reports on Form10-Q and current reports on Form8-K pursuant to Section13(a)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the SEC electronically. These filings may also be read and copied at the SECs
Public Reference Room which is located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation
of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site
is http://www.sec.gov.



You may obtain
at no charge, a copy of the Companys annual reports on Form10-K, quarterly reports on Form10-Q and current reports
on Form8-K and amendments to those reports on the Companys website at http://www.acmeunited.com or by contacting the
Investor Relations Department at the Companys corporate offices by calling (203)254-6060. Such reports and other information
are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC.



Item 1A. Risk Factors



The Company is subject to a number of significant
operational risks that might cause the Companys actual results to vary materially from its forecasts, targets or projections,
including:




achieving planned revenue and profit growth in each of the Company's
business segments;




changes in customer requirements and in the volume of sales to principal
customers;




the timing of orders and shipments;




    7
    
    




emergence of new competitors or consolidation of existing competitors;
and




industry demand fluctuations.



The Companys expectations for both short
and long-term future net revenues are based on the Companys estimates of future demand. Orders from the Companys
principal customers are ultimately based on demand from end-users and end-user demand can be difficult to predict. Low end-user
demand would negatively affect orders the Company receives from distributors and other principal customers which could, in turn
adversely affect the Companys revenues in any fiscal period. If the Companys estimates of sales are not accurate
and the Company experiences unforeseen variability in its revenues and operating results, the Company may be unable to adjust its
expense levels accordingly and its profit margins could be adversely affected.







Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of
the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.

The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax
Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017, and significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational
corporations. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly
impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in the period issued.



The Tax Act requires complex computations
not previously provided in U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain.
Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously
required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our financial
statements. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified,
as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and as we refine estimates in calculating the effect, our final
analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current provisional amounts, which could materially
affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.

Because our products are primarily
sold by third parties, our financial results depend in part on the financial health of these parties and any loss of a third party
distributor could adversely affect the Companys revenues.

A large majority of the Companys products
are sold through third-party distributors and large retailers. Some of our distributors also market products that compete with
our products. Changes in the financial or business conditions or the purchasing decisions of these third parties or their customers
could affect our sales and profitability.



Additionally, no assurances can be given that
any or all of such distributors or retailers will continue their relationships with the Company. Distributors and other significant
retail customers cannot easily be replaced and the loss of revenues and the Companys inability to reduce expenses to compensate
for the loss of revenues could adversely affect the Companys net revenues and profit margins.



The ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely
manner and to satisfy our customers fulfillment standards are subject to several factors, some of which are beyond our control.

Customers place great emphasis on timely delivery
of our products for specific selling seasons, especially during our second and third fiscal quarters, and on the fulfillment of
consumer demand throughout the year. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect product delivery to customers.
Vendor production delays, cybersecurity attacks on our vendors, difficulties encountered in shipping from overseas and customs
clearance delays are on-going risks of our business. We also rely upon third-party carriers for our product shipments from our
distribution centers to customers. Accordingly, we are subject to risks, including labor disputes, inclement weather, natural disasters,
cybersecurity attacks, possible acts of terrorism, availability of shipping containers, and increased security restrictions associated
with such carriers ability to provide delivery services to meet our shipping needs. Failure to deliver products to
our customers in a timely and effective manner, often under special vendor requirements to use specific carriers and delivery schedules,
could damage our reputation and brands and result in loss of customers or reduced orders.




    8
    
    



Reliance on foreign suppliers could adversely
affect the Companys business. 

The Company sources its products from suppliers
located in Asia, Europe and the United States. The Companys Asia vendors are located primarily in China, which subjects
the Company to various risks within the region including regulatory, political, economic and foreign currency changes. The Companys
ability to select and retain reliable vendors and suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality products efficiently will
impact its success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. The Companys sourcing operations
and its vendors are impacted by labor costs in China. Labor historically has been readily available at low cost relative to labor
costs in North America. However, as China is experiencing rapid social, political and economic changes, labor costs have risen
in some regions and there can be no assurance that labor will continue to be available to the Company in China at costs consistent
with historical levels or that changes in labor or other laws will not be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on
the Companys operations in China. Interruption of supplies from any of the Companys vendors, or the loss of one or
more key vendors, could have a negative effect on the Companys business and operating results.





Changes in currency exchange rates might
negatively affect the profitability and business prospects of the Company and its overseas vendors. In particular, although the
Chinese Renminbi has recently depreciated against the U.S. Dollar, if the Chinese Renminbi appreciates with respect to the U.S.
Dollar in the future, the Company may experience cost increases on such purchases, and this can adversely impact profitability.
Future interventions by China may result in further currency appreciation and increase our product costs over time. The
Company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related effects of
the product cost increases.



Additional factors that could adversely affect
the Companys business include increases in transportation costs, new or increased import duties, transportation delays,
work stoppages, capacity constraints and poor quality.



The Companys operations are increasingly
global in nature. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and
economic conditions in the countries in which we conduct business, by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and other factors
related to our international operations.

As our international operations and activities
expand, we face increasing exposure to the risks of operating in foreign countries. These factors include:





    
    
    
    Changes generally in political, regulatory or economic conditions in the countries in which we conduct business.





    
    
    
    Trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including government subsidies, tax benefits,changes in local tax rates, trade actions (such as anti-dumping proceedings) and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over the Company.





    
    
    
    
        Changes in foreign currency exchange rates
        which could adversely affect our competitive position, selling prices and manufacturing costs, and therefore the demand for our
        products in a particular market.
        

These risks could affect the cost of manufacturing
and selling our products, our pricing, sales volume, and ultimately our financial performance. The likelihood of such occurrences
and their potential effect on the Company vary from country to country and are unpredictable.



Continuing uncertainty in the global economy
could negatively impact our business. 

Uncertainty in the global economy could adversely
affect our customers and our suppliers and businesses such as ours. In addition, any uncertainty could have a variety of negative
effects on the Company, such as reduction in revenues, increased costs, lower gross margin percentages, increased allowances for
doubtful accounts and/or write-offs of accounts receivable and could otherwise have material adverse effects on our business, results
of operations, financial condition and cash flows.




    9
    
    



The Companys business is subject
to risks associated with seasonality which could adversely affect its cash flow, financial condition, or results of operations.

The Companys business, historically,
has experienced higher sales volume in the second and third quarters of the calendar year, when compared to the first and fourth
quarters. The Company is a major supplier of products related to the back-to-school season, which occurs principally
during the months of May, June, July and August. If this typical seasonal increase in sales of certain portions of the Companys
product line does not materialize in any year, the Company could experience a material adverse effect on its business, financial
condition and results of operations.



Failure to manage growth and continue to
expand our operations successfully could adversely affect our financial results.

Our business has experienced significant historical
growth over the years, and we expect our business to continue to grow organically and through strategic acquisitions. This growth
places significant demands on management and operational systems. If we cannot effectively manage our growth, it is likely to result
in operational inefficiencies and ineffective management of our business thus negatively impacting our operating results. To the
extent we grow through strategic acquisitions, our success will depend on selecting the appropriate targets, integrating such acquisitions
quickly and effectively and realizing any expected synergies and cost savings related to such acquisitions.







Loss of a major customer could result in
a decrease in the Companys future sales and earnings.

Sales of our products are primarily concentrated
in a few major customers including office product superstores and mass market distributors. In each 2017 and 2016, the Company
had two customers that individually exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales. In 2017, net sales to these customers amounted to approximately
16% and 11%, respectively, of consolidated net sales, and approximately 14% and 11%, respectively, of consolidated net sales for
each in 2016. The Company anticipates that a limited number of customers may account for a substantial portion of its total net
revenues for the foreseeable future. The business risks associated with this concentration, including increased credit risks for
these and other customers and the possibility of related bad debt write-offs, could negatively affect our margins and profits.
Additionally, the loss of a major customer, whether through competition or consolidation, or a disruption in sales to such a customer,
could result in a decrease of the Companys future sales and earnings.







The loss of key management could adversely
affect the Companys ability to run its business. 

The Companys success depends, to a large
extent, on the continued service of its executive management team, operating officers and other key personnel. The Company must
therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and operating personnel sufficient to maintain its current business
and support its projected growth. The Companys inability to meet its staffing requirements in the future could adversely
affect its results of operations.





Execution or the lack thereof, of oure-commercebusiness
may reduce our operating results.

Our e-commerce business constituted approximately 13% of our net
sales in 2017 andhas been our fastest growing distribution channel over the last several years. The continued successful
growth of oure-commercebusiness depends, in part, on third parties and factors over which we have limited control,
including difficulty forecasting demand, changing consumer preferences, and e-commerce buying trends, both domestically and abroad,
as well as promotional or other advertising initiatives employed by our customers or other third parties on theire-commercesites.
Additionally, sales in our e-commerce distribution channel may also divert sales from our other customers.



Additionally, the success of oure-commercebusiness depends,
in part, on the timely receipt of our products by our customers and their end users. The efficient flow of our products requires
that our distribution facilities have adequate capacity to support increases in our e-commerce business. If we encounter difficulties
with forecasting and supply to our distribution facilities, we could face shortages of inventory, resulting in out of stock
conditions in thee-commercesites operated by our customers or other third parties, and we could incur significantly
higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to ourcustomers.



Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties
might adversely affect the sales in oure-commercebusiness, as well as damage our brands.








    10
    
    



Failure to protect the Companys proprietary
rights or the costs of protecting these rights could adversely affect its business. 

The Companys success depends in part
on its ability to obtain patents and trademarks and to preserve other intellectual property rights covering its products and processes.
The Company has obtained certain domestic and foreign patents, and intends to continue to seek patents on its inventions when appropriate.
The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive. There can be no assurance that pending patents related
to any of the Companys products will be issued, in which case the Company may not be able to legally prevent others from
producing similar and/or compatible competing products. If other companies were to sell similar and/or compatible competing products,
the Companys results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Companys
efforts to protect its intellectual property will be successful. Any infringement of the Companys intellectual property
or legal defense of such action could have a material adverse effect on the Company.







The Company is subject to intense competition
in all of the markets in which it competes. 

The Companys products are sold in highly
competitive markets including at mass merchants, high volume office supply stores and online. The Company believes that the principal
points of competition in these markets are product innovation, quality, price, merchandising, design and engineering capabilities,
product development, timeliness and completeness of delivery, conformity to customer specifications and post-sale support. Competitive
conditions may require the Company to match or better competitors prices to retain business or market shares. The Company
believes that its competitive position will depend on continued investment in innovation and product development, manufacturing
and sourcing, quality standards, marketing and customer service and support. The Companys success will depend in part on
its ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various
market categories in which it competes. The Company may not have sufficient resources to make the investments that may be necessary
to anticipate those changing needs and the Company may not anticipate, identify, develop and market products successfully or otherwise
be successful in maintaining its competitive position. In addition there are numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing
and commercializing innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not provide expected growth results.
There are no significant barriers to entry into the markets for most of the Companys products.



Compromises of our information systems or
unauthorized access to confidential information or our customers' or associates' personal information may materially harm our business
or damage our reputation.

Through our sales and marketing activities and our business operations,
we collect and store confidential information and certain personal information from our customers and associates. We also process
payment card information and check information. In addition, in the normal course of business, we gather and retain personal information
about our associates and generate and have access to confidential business information. Although we have taken steps designed to
safeguard such information, there can be no assurance that such information will be protected against unauthorized access or disclosure.
Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our or our vendors' network security and, if successful, misappropriate such information.
An Acme United associate, contractor or other third-party with whom we do business may also attempt to circumvent our security
measures in order to obtain such information or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. We could be subject to
liability for failure to comply with privacy and information security laws, for failing to protect personal information, or for
misusing personal information, such as use of such information for an unauthorized marketing purpose. Any compromise of our systems
or data could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulators,
payment card associations, employees and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations.









The Company may not be able to maintain
or to raise prices in response to inflation and increasing costs.

Future market and competitive pressures may
prohibit the Company from raising prices to offset increased product costs, freight costs and other inflationary items or to offset
currency fluctuations. The inability to pass these costs through to the Companys customers could have a negative effect
on its results of operations.




    11
    
    



The Company may need to raise additional
capital to fund its operations. 

The Companys management believes that,
under current conditions, the Companys current cash and cash equivalents, cash generated by operations, together with the
borrowing availability under its revolving loan agreement with HSBC Bank N.A., will be sufficient to fund planned operations for
the next twelve months. However, if the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, it may be required to find
additional funding sources. If adequate financing is unavailable or is unavailable on acceptable terms, the Company may be unable
to maintain, develop or enhance its operations, products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or adequately respond
to competitive pressures.







Changes
in interest rates could adversely affect us.

We
have exposure to increases ininterest ratesunder our revolving credit loan agreement with HSBC, N.A. which presently
bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 2%. In
response to the last global economic recession, actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banking institutions, were
taken to create and maintain a low interest rate environment. However, in 2017, the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its benchmark interest
rate three times and indicated that additional increases would likely be forthcoming in 2018. While it is unclear whether these
actions suggest a change in previous monetary policy positions, any such change or market expectation of such change may result
in significantly higher long-term interest rates. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs on our variable-rate
debt as well as any future fixed rate debt, we may incur at higher interest rates, and interest which we pay reduces our cash available
for working capital, acquisitions, and other uses.



Product liability claims or regulatory actions
could adversely affect the Company's financial results and reputation.

Claims for losses or injuries allegedly caused
by some of the Companys products arise in the ordinary course of its business. In addition to the risk of substantial monetary
judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the Companys
reputation in the marketplace or the value of its brands. The Company also could be required to recall possible defective products,
which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage,
potential product liability claims are subject to a deductible or could be excluded under the terms of the policy.



The Company is subject to environmental
regulation and environmental risks. 

The Company is subject to national, state,
provincial and/or local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations and prohibitions on the discharge and emission
of, and establish standards for the use, disposal and management of, certain materials and waste. These environmental laws and
regulations also impose liability for the costs of investigating and cleaning up sites, and certain damages resulting from present
and past spills, disposals, or other releases of hazardous substances or materials. Environmental laws and regulations can be complex
and may change often. Capital and operating expenses required to comply with environmental laws and regulations can be significant,
and violations may result in substantial fines and penalties. In addition, environmental laws and regulations, such as the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, in the United States impose liability on several grounds for
the investigation and cleanup of contaminated soil, ground water and buildings and for damages to natural resources on a wide range
of properties. For example, contamination at properties formerly owned or operated by the Company, as well as at properties it
will own and operate, and properties to which hazardous substances were sent by the Company, may result in liability for the Company
under environmental laws and regulations. The costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations and any claims concerning
noncompliance, or liability with respect to contamination in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Companys
financial condition or results of operations.





We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to pay
dividends or purchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase program.

We continue to pay and declare dividends on a quarterly basis
and we anticipate that we will continue to do so. However, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient cash or surplus
under the law to be able to continue to pay dividends or purchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase program.
(At December 31, 2017, a total of 41,227 may be purchased in the future under the repurchase program which the Company announced
in 2010.) This may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures,
increases in reserves or lack of available capital. We may also suspend the payment of dividends or our stock repurchase program
if the Board deems such action to be in the best interests of our shareholders. If we do not pay dividends, the price of our common
stock would likely decrease.




    12
    
    







Our shares of common stock are thinly traded
and our stock price may be volatile.

Because our common stock is thinly traded,
its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market in general or the stock prices of other companies listed
on major stock exchanges. There were approximately 2,959,874 shares of our common stock held by non-affiliates as of December 31,
2017. Thus, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and, as a result, the
trading price for shares of our common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of
our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger.







Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments



Not applicable.



Item 2. Properties





    Location
    Square Footage
    
    Purpose

    Owned
    
    
    

    Rocky Mount, NC
    340,000
    
    Warehousing and distribution

    Vancouver, WA
    53,000
    
    Warehousing and distribution

    Solingen, Germany
    35,000
    
    Warehousing, distribution and administrative


    
    428,000
    
    

    Leased
    
    
    

    Fairfield, CT
    15,400 
    
    Administrative

    Bentonville, AK
    1,500
    
    Administrative

    Marlborough, MA
    28,000 
    
    Manufacturing, warehousing and distribution

    Santa Ana, CA
    10,000
    
    Manufacturing, warehousing, distribution and administrative

    Smyrna, TN
    13,000
    
    Manufacturing, warehousing and distribution

    Mount Forest, Ontario, Canada
    42,500 
    
    Warehousing and distribution

    Orangeville, Ontario, Canada
    2,850 
    
    Administrative

    Hong Kong, China
    2,750 
    
    Administrative

    Guangzhou, China
    3,500 
    
    Administrative

    Ningbo, China
    1,800
    
    Administrative

    
    121,300
    
    

    
    
    
    

    Total:
    549,300
    
    



The Companys facilities located in the United States and
China are utilized by all of its segments. The Companys facilities located in Canada and Germany are utilized by its
Canadian segment and its European segment, respectively.



Management believes that the Company's facilities,
whether leased or owned, are adequate to meet its current needs and should continue to be adequate for the foreseeable future.



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

There are no pending material legal proceedings
to which the Company is a party or, to the actual knowledge of the Company, contemplated by any governmental agency.



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.




    13
    
    






PART II



Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common
Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

The Company's Common Stock is traded on
the NYSE American under the symbol "ACU". The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices on the NYSE American
for the Common Stock for the periods indicated:





    Year Ended December 31, 2017
    High
    Low
    Dividends Declared

    Fourth Quarter
    $25.55
    $20.20
    $.11

    Third Quarter
    28.80
    22.52
    .11

    Second Quarter
    29.49
    26.00
    .11

    First Quarter
    28.10
    22.97
    .10

    
    
    
    

    Year Ended December 31, 2016
    
    
    

    Fourth Quarter
    $26.66
    $19.49
    $.10

    Third Quarter
    22.19
    18.42
    .10

    Second Quarter
    18.85
    15.95
    .10

    First Quarter
    17.97
    13.01
    .10




As of March 3, 2018 there were approximately
2,101 holders of record of the Company's Common Stock.



Performance Graph

The graph below compares the yearly
cumulative total shareholder return on the Companys Common Stock with the yearly cumulative total return of the following
for the period 2013 to 2017: (a) the NYSE American Index and (b) a diversified peer group of companies that, like the Company,
(i) are currently listed on the NYSE American, and (ii) have a market capitalization of $80 million to $90 million.

The Company does not believe that it
can reasonably identify a peer group of companies, on an industry or line-of-business basis, for the purpose of developing a comparative
performance index. While the Company is aware that some other publicly-traded companies market products in the Companys
line-of-business, none of these other companies provide most or all of the products offered by the Company, and many offer products
or services not offered by the Company. Moreover, some of these other companies that engage in the Companys line-of-business
do so through divisions or subsidiaries that are not publicly-traded. Furthermore, many of these other companies are substantially
more highly capitalized than the Company. For these reasons, any such comparison would not, in the opinion of the Company, provide
a meaningful index of comparative performance.

The comparisons in the graph below
are based on historical data and are not indicative of, or intended to forecast, the possible future performance of the Companys
Common Stock.




    14
    
    









Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

On November 22, 2010,
the Company announced a Common Stock repurchase program of up to a total 200,000 shares. The program does not have an expiration
date. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, the Company did not repurchase shares of its Common Stock. As of December
31, 2017, a total of 41,227 shares may be purchased in the future under the repurchase program announced in 2010.




    15
    
    



Item 6.Selected Financial Data



FIVE
YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(All
figures in thousands except per share data)


    







    
    2017
    2016
    2015
    2014
    2013

    Net sales
    $130,550
    $124,574
    $109,812
    $107,222
    $89,577

    Net income
    $4,052
    $5,851
    $4,794
    $4,789
    $4,003

    Total assets
    $114,730
    $92,066
    $81,421
    $79,308
    $68,079

    Long-term debt, less current portion
    $43,450
    $32,936
    $25,913
    $24,147
    $22,912

    Net income
    
    
    
    
    

    Per share (Basic)
    $1.21
    $1.76
    $1.44
    $1.48
    $1.26

    Per share (Diluted)
    $1.09
    $1.64
    $1.30
    $1.36
    $1.22

    Dividends per share
    $0.43
    $0.40
    $0.37
    $0.34
    $0.31







    Non-GAAP measures:
    2017
    2016
    2015
    2014
    2013

    Net income
    $4,052
    $5,851
    $4,794
    $4,789
    $4,003

    Adjustment for tax expense related
    
    
    
    
    

    to U.S. tax reform
    1,245
    
    
    
    

    Non-GAAP net income
    $5,297
    $5,851
    $4,794
    $4,789
    $4,003

    Non-GAAP earnings per share:
    
    
    
    
    

    Per share (Basic)
    $1.21
    $1.76
    $1.44
    $1.48
    $1.26

    Adjustment for tax expense
    0.37
    
    
    
    

    Per share as adjusted (Basic)
    $1.58
    $1.76
    $1.44
    $1.48
    $1.26

    
    
    
    
    
    

    Per share (Diluted)
    $1.09
    $1.64
    $1.30
    $1.36
    $1.22

    Adjustment for tax expense
    0.37
    
    
    
    

    Per share as adjusted (Diluted)
    $1.42
    $1.64
    $1.30
    $1.36
    $1.22






The Company believes that
the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures, when presented together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide
useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to its results of operations. However,
non-GAAP financial measures have certain limitations in that they do not reflect the tax expenses associated with the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act, which ultimately impact the Companys determination of net income in accordance with GAAP.



Tax Reform

Tax reform legislation in the U.S. was
signed into law in December 2017 with the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act). Among the tax reforms
was a transitional tax assessed on undistributed earnings of foreign operations amounting to $1,170,000. Also, among the tax reforms
was a reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. Historically, we have recognized deferred tax assets for items providing
future reductions of taxable income. These deferred tax assets are valued based on the corporate tax rate expected to be available
when the deductions are taken. With the enactment of the lower corporate tax rate in 2017, we have reduced our deferred tax assets
by $75,000. The total impact of the tax reform was a non-cash increase in 2017 income tax expense of $1,245,000 taken in the fourth
quarter of 2017.



Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations



Forward-Looking Information

The Company may from time to time make
written or oral forward-looking statements including statements contained in this report and in other communications
by the Company, which are made in good faith pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on our beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available
to us. When used in this document, words like may, might, will, except,
anticipate, believe, potential, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. Actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.




    16
    
    



Forward-looking statements in this report,
including without limitation, statements related to the Companys plans, strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions
and adequacy of resources, are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties including, without limitation, the
following: (i) changes in the Companys plans, strategies, objectives, expectations and intentions, which may be made at
any time at the discretion of the Company; (ii) the impact of uncertainties in global economic conditions, including the impact
on the Companys suppliers and customers; (iii) changes in client needs and consumer spending habits; (iv) the impact of
competition and technological changes on the Company; (v) the Companys ability to manage its growth effectively, including
its ability to successfully integrate any business it might acquire; (vi) currency fluctuations; (vii) increases in the cost of
borrowings resulting from rising interest rates (viii) uncertainties arising from the interpretation and application of the recently
enacted Tax Act; and (ix) other risks and uncertainties indicated from time to time in the Companys filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors affecting the Company, see the Risk Factors
set forth above in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Critical Accounting Policies

The following
discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial
statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The Companys significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. Certain accounting estimates are particularly important to the understanding of the Companys financial position
and results of operations and require the application of significant judgment by the Companys management and can be materially
affected by changes from period to period in economic factors or conditions that are outside the control of management. The Companys
management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. Those
estimates are based on historical operations, future business plans and projected financial results, the terms of existing contracts,
the observance of trends in the industry, information provided by customers and information available from other outside sources,
as appropriate. The following discusses the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates:



Estimates. Operating results may
be affected by certain accounting estimates. The most sensitive and significant accounting estimates in the financial statements
relate to customer rebates, valuation allowances for deferred income tax assets, obsolete and slow moving inventories, potentially
uncollectible accounts receivable, pension liability and accruals for income taxes. Although the Companys management has
used available information to make judgments on the appropriate estimates to account for the above matters, there can be no assurance
that future events will not significantly affect the estimated amounts related to these areas where estimates are required. However,
historically, actual results have not been materially different than original estimates.



Revenue Recognition. The Company
recognizes revenue from the sales of its products when ownership transfers to the customers, which occurs either at the time of
shipment or upon delivery based upon contractual terms with the customer. The Company recognizes customer program costs, including
rebates, cooperative advertising, slotting fees and other sales related discounts, as a reduction to sales.



Allowance for doubtful accounts.The
Company provides an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon a review of outstanding accounts receivable, historical collection
information and existing economic conditions. The allowance for doubtful accounts represents estimated uncollectible accounts receivables
associated with potential customer defaults on contractual obligations, usually due to potential insolvencies. The allowance includes
amounts for certain customers where a risk of default has been specifically identified. In addition, the allowance includes a provision
for customer defaults based on historical experience. The Company actively monitors its accounts receivable balances, and its historical
experience of annual accounts receivable write offs has been negligible.



Customer Rebates. Customer
rebates and incentives are a common practice in the office products industry. We incur customer rebate costs to obtain favorable
product placement, to promote sell-through of products and to maintain competitive pricing. Customer rebate costs and incentives,
including volume rebates, promotional funds, catalog allowances and slotting fees, are accounted for as a reduction to gross sales.
These costs are recorded at the time of sale and are based on individual customer contracts. Management periodically reviews accruals
for these rebates and allowances, and adjusts accruals when appropriate.








    17
    
    

Obsolete and Slow Moving Inventory.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined on the first-in, first-out method, or net realizable value. An allowance
is established to adjust the cost of inventory to its net realizable value. Inventory allowances are recorded for obsolete or
slow moving inventory based on assumptions about future demand and marketability of products, the impact of new product introductions
and specific identification of items, such as discontinued products. These estimates could vary significantly from actual requirements
if future economic conditions, customer inventory levels or competitive conditions differ from expectations.





Income Taxes. Deferred income
tax liabilities or assets are established for temporary differences between financial and tax reporting bases and are subsequently
adjusted to reflect changes in tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. A valuation allowance
is recorded to reduce deferred income tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized.



The Tax Act was signed into law in
December 2017 and legislation represents a fundamental and dramatic shift in U.S. taxation, with many provisions of the Act differing
significantly from previous U.S. tax law. With enactment occurring late in 2017, companies with calendar reporting years have not
had extensive time to analyze the impacts of the legislation. Applying the effects of a lower corporate tax rate to deferred tax
assets and liabilities, evaluating the one-time transition tax on undistributed earnings of foreign operations, examining the implications
of changes to net operating loss and other credit carryforwards and considering other provisions of the Act in a relatively compressed
time frame necessitates significant estimation and judgment. Following the guidance of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, we have made reasonable estimates of the Act's provisions and have recorded a non-cash charge
to fourth quarter tax expense of $1,245,000 to reflect these effects. This provisional estimate could be affected based on further
analysis of the Act's requirements. Given the Act's broad and complex changes, further clarification, interpretation and regulatory
guidance could affect the assumptions we used in making our reasonable estimate. As we continue to assess the Act's provisions,
any adjustments to our provisional estimate will be reported as a component of income tax expense in 2018 and disclosed in the
period when any such adjustments have been determined.

Intangible Assets and Goodwill.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are recorded at cost upon acquisition and amortized over the term of the related contract,
if any, or useful life, as applicable. Intangible assets held by the Company with finite useful lives include patents and trademarks.
The weighted average amortization period for intangible assets at December 31, 2017 was 10 years. The Company periodically reviews
the values recorded for intangible assets and goodwill to assess recoverability from future operations whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company assessed
the recoverability of its long-lived assets and goodwill and believed that there were no events or circumstances present that would
that would require a test of recoverability on those assets. As a result, there was no impairment of the carrying amounts of such
assets and no reduction in their estimated useful lives. The net book value of the Companys intangible assets was $17,882,005
as of December 31, 2017, compared to $13,988,186 as of December 31, 2016, and the net book value of the Companys goodwill
was approximately $4,696,000 at December 31, 2017 compared to $3,948,000 at December 31, 2016.



Pension
Obligation. The pension benefit obligation is based on various assumptions used by third-party actuaries in calculating
this amount.These assumptions include discount rates, expected return on plan assets, mortality rates and other factors.
Revisions in assumptions and actual results that differ from the assumptions affect future expenses, cash funding requirements
and obligations. Our funding policy is to fund the plan in accordance
with applicable requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations.

These assumptions are reviewed annually
and updated as required. The Company has a frozen defined benefit pension plan. Two
assumptions, the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets, are important elements of expense and liability measurement.

We determine the discount rate used
to measure plan liabilities as of the December31 measurement date. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the
associated liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year. In estimating this rate, we look at rates of return
on fixed-income investments of similar duration to the liabilities in the plan that receive high, investment grade ratings by recognized
ratings agencies. Using these methodologies, we determined a discount rate of 3.14% to be appropriate as of December31, 2017,
which is a decrease of 0.26percentage point from the rate used as of December31, 2016.




    18
    
    

The
expected long-term rate of return on assets considers the Companys historical results and projected returns for similar
allocations among asset classes. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, actual results that differ from
the Companys assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, affect expense and obligation
in future periods. For the U.S. pension plan, our assumption for the expected return on plan assets was 6.0% for 2017. For
more information concerning these costs and obligations, see the discussion in Note 6  Pension and Profit Sharing, in the
Notes to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.







Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.
Stock based compensation cost is measured at the grant date fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the requisite
service period. The Company uses the Black-Scholes option - pricing model to determine fair value of the awards, which involves
certain subjective assumptions. These assumptions include estimating the length of time employees will retain their vested stock
options before exercising them (expected term), the estimated volatility of the Companys common stock price
over the expected term (volatility) and the number of options for which vesting requirements will not be completed
(forfeitures). Changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect estimates of fair value stock-based compensation,
and the related amount recognized on the consolidated statements of operations. Refer to Note 11 - Stock Option Plans - in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report for a more detailed discussion.



Results of Operations 2017 Compared with 2016



On October 26, 2017, the Company exercised
its option to purchase its First Aid Only manufacturing and distribution center in Vancouver, WA for $4.0 million. The property
consists of 53,000 square feet of office, manufacturing, and warehouse space on 2.86 acres. The purchase was financed by a variable rate mortgage with HSBC Bank, N.A. at an interest rate of LIBOR
plus 2.5%.



On February 1, 2017, the Company purchased
the assets of Spill Magic, Inc., located in Santa Ana, CA and Smyrna, TN for $7.2 million in cash. The Spill Magic products are
leaders in absorbents that encapsulate spills into dry powders that can be safely disposed. Many large retail chains use its products
to remove liquids from broken glass containers, oil and gas spills, blood and solvents. Additional information concerning the acquisition
of Spill Magic assets is set forth in Note 17  Business Combinations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
in this report.



On February 1, 2016, the
Company purchased certain assets of Vogel Capital, Inc., d/b/a Diamond Machining Technology (DMT), located in Marlborough, MA.
DMT products are leaders in sharpening tools for knives, scissors, chisels and other cutting tools. The
DMT products use finely dispersed diamonds on the surfaces of sharpeners. The Company purchased inventory, accounts receivable,
equipment, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property for $7 million using funds borrowed under its revolving credit facility
with HSBC. Additional information concerning the acquisition of DMT assets is set forth in Note 17  Business Combinations,
in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.



Net Sales



In 2017, sales increased
by $5,976,000, or 4.8%, to $130,550,000 compared to $124,574,000 in 2016.



The U.S. segment sales increased
by $4,614,000, or 4%, in 2017 compared to 2016. Our acquisition of Spill Magic assets in February 2017 contributed $6.5 million
to sales in 2017. Excluding Spill Magic, net sales in the U.S. segment declined $1.9 million, or 2%. Sales of first aid products
were strong, but due to a large back-to-school promotion that did not repeat this year, Westcott school and office product sales
were slightly lower than 2016.



Sales in Canada increased
2% in U.S. dollars and were constant in local currency in 2017 compared to 2016.



European sales increased
by $1,251,000, or 18%, in U.S. dollars and 16% in local currency in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase in sales in Europe in 2017
was primarily due to increased market share in the office products channel and higher sales of DMT products.



Gross Profit



Gross profit was 36.7% of net sales in 2017
compared to 36.6% in 2016.




    19
    
    



Selling, General and Administrative



Selling, general and administrative
expenses were $40,103,000 in 2017 compared with $37,113,000 in 2016, an increase of $2,990,000, or 8%. SG&A expenses were 30.7%
of net sales in 2017 compared to 29.8% in 2016. The increase in SG&A expenses was primarily the result of increases in delivery
costs and sales commissions which resulted from higher sales, incremental fixed costs resulting from the acquisition of Spill Magic
assets, and higher headcount, which include compensation and recruiting costs.







Operating Income



Operating income was $7,796,000
in 2017, compared with $8,442,000 in 2016. Operating income in the U.S. decreased by approximately $1,068,000 primarily as a result
of lower profit margins due to customer/product mix and higher fixed selling, general and administrative costs. Operating income
in Canada increased by approximately $207,000 principally due to a better product mix and higher sales. Operating income in the
European segment increased by approximately $215,000 primarily due to higher sales.



Interest Expense, Net



Net interest expense for
2017 was $1,327,000, compared with $869,000 for 2016, an increase of $458,000. The increase in interest expense, net for 2017,
was primarily the result of higher average borrowings under the Companys bank revolving credit facility compared to 2016
and a higher average interest rate during 2017. The higher borrowings were primarily the result of funding the acquisition of assets
of Spill Magic.



Other Income (Expense),
Net



Net other income was $24,000
in 2017 compared to net other expense of $77,000 in 2016. The increase in other income, net for 2017, was primarily due to lower
losses from foreign currency transactions.



Income
Tax 



Income
tax expense was $2,441,000 in 2017, resulting in a tax rate of 38%. With the enactment of the Tax Act in December 2017 in the U.S.,
provisions of this tax reform were required to be recognized in 2017. The most significant 2017 impact on the Company of this legislation
was the imposition of a transition tax on undistributed earnings of foreign operations in the amount of $1,170,000. The other impact
of the legislation was an adjustment to deferred tax assets. As a result of the reduction of the corporate tax rate from 34% to
21%, we have taken a charge of $75,000 to reduce the value of these assets. The total impact of the tax reform resulted in a non-cash
in 2017 income tax expense of $1,245,000. Without this special charge, income tax expense was $1,196,000 or an effective tax rate
of 18% compared to 22% in 2016. In 2017, the Company recorded approximately $350,000 in excess tax benefits resulting from the
adoption of ASU 2016-09 in 2017. Excluding the impact of the tax benefit, the effective tax rate would have been 24% for 2017.
Excluding the impact of a charitable product donation in 2016, the effective tax rate would have been 25%. 



Off-Balance Sheet Transactions



The Company did not engage
in any off-balance sheet transactions during 2017.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



During 2017, working capital increased by approximately
$8.9 million compared to December 31, 2016. Inventory increased by approximately $2.8 million, or 7%, which corresponds mostly
to the increase in sales. The Company expects that changes in inventory levels will continue to be consistent with changes in sales,
including the seasonal impact on the Companys revenue stream. Inventory turnover, calculated using a twelve month average
inventory balance, increased to 2.2 from 2.1 at December 31, 2016. The reserve for slow moving and obsolete inventory was $654,855
at December 31, 2017 compared to $677,253 at December 31, 2016. We do not anticipate significant increases in the allowance for
slow moving and obsolete inventory in the ordinary course of business during 2018.






    20
    
    



Receivables increased by approximately
$6.0 million at December 31, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016. The average number of days sales outstanding in accounts receivable
was 65 days in 2017 compared to 64 days in 2016. Accounts payable and other current liabilities increased by approximately $4.0
million.



At
December 31, 2017, total debt outstanding under the Companys revolving credit facility increased by approximately $10.5
million compared to total debt at December 31, 2016. The change in debt was primarily due to borrowings to fund the acquisition
of assets of Spill Magic on February 1, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, $43,450,000 was
outstanding and $6,550,000 was available for borrowing under the Companys revolving credit facility. 







On May 6, 2016, the Company amended its revolving
credit loan agreement with HSBC Bank, N.A. The amended facility provides for borrowings of up to an aggregate of $50 million at
an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.0%.





On January 27, 2017, the Company amended its
revolving credit loan agreement with HSBC Bank, N.A. on a temporary basis in order to provide for the funding of the Companys
acquisition of the assets of Spill Magic, Inc. as described in Note 17. The amended facility provided for an increase in borrowings
from $50 million to $55 million for the period commencing April 1, 2017 and ending on September 30, 2017. Commencing October 1,
2017, the maximum amount outstanding at any time under the facility returned to $50 million. The interest rate on borrowings remained
unchanged at a rate of LIBOR plus 2.0%. Under the revolving credit loan agreement, the Company must pay a facility fee, payable
quarterly, in an amount equal to two tenths of one percent (.20%) per annum of the average daily unused portion of the revolving
credit line. All principal amounts outstanding under the agreement are required to be repaid in a single amount on May 6, 2019,
the date the agreement expires; interest is payable monthly. Funds borrowed under the agreement may be used for working capital,
acquisitions, general operating expenses, share repurchases and certain other purposes.







Under the revolving
loan agreement, the Company is required to maintain specific amounts of tangible net worth, a specified total liabilities to net
worth ratio, and a fixed charge coverage ratio, and must have annual net income greater than $0, measured as of the end of each
fiscal year. Specifically, under the loan agreement, the Company was required to maintain a ratio of total liabilities
to tangible net worth of not more than 2.25 to 1, calculated
as at December 31, 2017. However, at December 31, 2017, the Companys ratio was 2.37 to 1, or 5% higher than the maximum
permitted ratio. The Company was not in compliance with the covenant at that date due solely to the impact on the Company of the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which was enacted into law in December 2017, as a result of which the Company incurred a one-time, non-cash
charge of $1,170,000 in the fourth quarter of 2017 relating to taxation of the Companys foreign earnings. The Company and
HSBC Bank, N.A. subsequently agreed to amend the loan agreement to increase the permitted ratio of total liabilities to tangible
net worth from 2.25 to 1 to 2.50 to 1, effective for the quarter ended December 31, 2017. All other covenants remain unchanged.
Accordingly, as of December 31, 2017, the Company was in compliance with the covenants of the loan agreement as so amended.



On October 26, 2017, the Company exercised
its option to purchase its First Aid Only manufacturing and distribution center in Vancouver, WA for $4.0 million. The purchase
was financed by a variable rate mortgage with HSBC Bank, N.A. at an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.5%. Commencing December 1, 2017,
principal payments of $22,222 and interest are due monthly, with all amounts outstanding due on maturity on October 31, 2024. The
outstanding principal on December 31, 2017 was $3,978,000.



Capital expenditures during
2017 and 2016 were $3,146,194 and $1,809,823, respectively, which were, in part, financed with borrowings under the Companys
revolving credit facility. Capital expenditures in 2018 are expected to increase approximately $0.7 million over 2017, to continue
to increase capacity and upgrade equipment at the Companys recently acquired DMT and Spill Magic facilities.



As a result of the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act, we have repatriated approximately $5.8 million so far in 2018. We have used the proceeds to pay down debt and plan
to finance expanded production at our DMT, Spill Magic, and first aid facilities in the U.S. as well as acquisitions.



The Company believes that cash on hand, and
cash generated from operating activities, together with funds available under its revolving credit facility, are expected, under
current conditions, to be sufficient to finance the Companys planned operations for at least the next twelve months from
the issuance of this Form 10-K.




    21
    
    



Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting
Standards



In
February 2016, the FASB issued guidance that will change the requirements for accounting for leases. The principal change under
the new accounting guidance is that lessees under leases classified as operating leases will recognize a right-of-use asset and
a lease liability. Current lease accounting does not require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities arising under operating
leases on the balance sheet. Under the new guidance, lessees (including lessees under leases classified as finance leases and
operating leases) will recognize a right-to-use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet, initially measured as the present
value of lease payments under the lease. Expense recognition and cash flow presentation guidance will be based upon whether the
lease is classified as an operating lease or a finance lease (the classification criteria for distinguishing between finance leases
and operating leases is substantially similar to the classification criteria for distinguishing between capital leases and operating
leases under current guidance). The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning
after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition
approach for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period
presented in the financial statements; the guidance provides certain practical expedients. The Company is currently evaluating
this guidance to determine its impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows
of the Company.



In March
2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09 to improve the accounting for employee share-based payments. This standard simplifies several
aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of
awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows, as part of FASBs simplification
initiative to reduce cost and complexity in accounting standards while maintaining or improving the usefulness of the information
provided to the users of financial statements. The new standard was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2017.
The adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of excess tax benefits in the amount of approximately $350,000 in
our provision for income taxes within the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the twelve months ended December
31, 2017, rather than additional paid-in capital. Additionally,
our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows now present excess tax benefits as an operating activity included in other
accrued liabilities, adjusted prospectively.











In
August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, which defers the effective date of ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts
with Customers (Topic 606) by one year. ASU 2015-14 is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model requiring a company
to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount reflecting the consideration it
expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. As a result, the ASU is now effective for fiscal years, and
interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which for us is the first quarter of 2018. The Company
has elected to adopt the new guidance using the modified retrospective method. We have completed our analysis of the
anticipated impact of ASU 2015-17 on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, and other than an
increase in the level of such disclosures, we do not expect the impact to have a material effect on the
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.



In November
2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes (Topic 740), which simplifies the presentation
of deferred income taxes. This ASU requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a statement
of financial position. ASU 2015-17 may be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively and is effective for reporting periods
beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. The Company adopted this ASU retrospectively, resulting in a
reclassification of its net current deferred tax asset of $501,708 to the net non-current deferred tax asset on its consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 2016.



In
January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business.
The new guidance clarifies the definition of a business in order to allow for the evaluation of whether transactions should be
accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect that ASU 2017-01 would be likely have
a material effect on the consolidated financial position, results of operations or
cash flows of the Company.




    22
    
    

In January 2017, the FASB
issued ASU 2017-04 Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment ASU 2017-04
simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating the second step of the goodwill impairment test. The second step
measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting units goodwill with the carrying
amount of that goodwill. UnderASU 2017-04, a company will record an impairment charge based on the excess of a reporting
units carrying amount over its fair value.ASU 2017-04 will be applied prospectively and is effective for annual or
interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for interim or
annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. We are currently evaluating the impact of this
guidance on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.



In February 2018, the FASB issuedASU
No. 2018-02 Income Statement  Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.ASU No. 2018-02 provides companies with an option to reclassify stranded
tax effects within accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) to retained earnings in each period in which the
effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (or portion thereof) is recorded.ASU
No. 2018-02 also requires disclosure of a description of the accounting policy for releasing income tax effects from AOCI and
whether an election was made to reclassify the stranded income tax effects from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.ASU No. 2018-02
is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption
is permitted. Companies can adopt the provisions ofASU No. 2018-02in either the period of adoption or retrospectively
to each period (or periods) in which the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate in the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act is recognized. The Company is beginning to evaluate the impact the adoption ofASU No. 2018-02 will have on the
Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.



Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosure about Market Risk



Not applicable.




    23
    
    



Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data





Acme
United Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS











    
    For the years ended December 31,

    
    2017
    2016

    
    
    

    Net sales
    $130,550,349
    $124,574,371

    
    
    

    Cost of goods sold
    82,651,076
    79,019,315

    
    
    

    Gross profit
    47,899,273
    45,555,056

    
    
    

    Selling, general and administrative expenses
    40,103,220
    37,113,000

    Operating income
    7,796,053
    8,442,056

    
    
    

    Non operating items:
    
    

    Interest:
    
    

    Interest expense
    (1,356,536)
    (868,626)

    Interest income
    29,376
    119

    Interest expense, net
    (1,327,160)
    (868,507)

    Other income (expense)
    24,404
    (76,846)

    Total other expense, net
    (1,302,756)
    (945,353)

    Income before income tax expense
    6,493,297
    7,496,703

    Income tax expense
    2,440,818
    1,645,705

    Net income
    $4,052,479
    $5,850,998

    
    
    

    Earnings per share:
    
    

    Basic
    $1.21
    $1.76

    Diluted
    $1.09
    $1.64



  

See
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







    24
    
    



Acme United Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME











    
    For the Years Ended

    
    December 31,

    
    2017
    2016

    
    
    

    Net income
    $4,052,479
    $5,850,998

    Other comprehensive gain (loss)-
    
    

    Foreign currency translation
    614,741
    (89,556)

    Change in net prior service credit
    
    

    and actuarial gains, net of
    
    

    income tax expense
    87,461
    284,145

    Total other comprehensive income
    702,202
    194,589

    Comprehensive income
    $4,754,681
    $6,045,587







See accompanyingNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 







    25
    
    



Acme United Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  







    
    December 31,
    December 31,

    
    2017
    2016

    ASSETS
    
    

    Current assets:
    
    

    Cash and cash equivalents
    $9,338,269
    $5,910,770

    Accounts receivable, less allowance
    26,012,368
    20,020,984

    Inventories, net
    40,086,871
    37,237,861

    Prepaid expenses and other current assets
    2,380,137
    1,791,871

    Total current assets
    77,817,645
    64,961,486

    
    
    

    Property, plant and equipment:
    
    

    Land
    1,428,597
    412,598

    Buildings
    9,561,692
    5,668,866

    Machinery and equipment
    16,242,764
    13,428,678

    Total property, plant and equipment
    27,233,053
    19,510,142

    Less: accumulated depreciation
    13,504,914
    11,537,242

    Net plant, property and equipment
    13,728,139
    7,972,900

    
    
    

    Intangible assets, less accumulated amortization
    17,882,005
    13,988,186

    Goodwill
    4,696,370
    3,948,235

    Deferred income taxes
    509,646
    1,170,349

    Other assets
    96,001
    24,936

    Total assets
    $114,729,806
    $92,066,092

    
    
    

    LIABILITIES
    
    

    Current liabilities:
    
    

    Accounts payable
    $11,150,960
    $7,338,798

    Current portion of mortgage payable
    266,667
    

    Other accrued liabilities
    5,365,344
    5,480,950

    Total current liabilities
    16,782,971
    12,819,748

    Long-term debt
    43,450,348
    32,935,858

    Mortgage payable, net of current portion
    3,711,111
    

    Other accrued liabilities - non current
    847,383
    190,140

    Total liabilities
    64,791,813
    45,945,746

    
    
    

    STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
    
    

    Common stock, par value $2.50: authorized 8,000,000
    
    

    shares; issued - 4,838,071 shares in 2017 and4,788,965 shares in 2016, including treasury stock
    12,094,413
    11,971,657

    Treasury stock, at cost, 1,464,010 in 2017
    
    

    and in 2016
    (13,870,041)
    (13,870,041)

    Additional paid-in capital
    8,880,543
    8,493,256

    Accumulated other comprehensive loss
    (1,633,999)
    (2,336,201)

    Retained earnings
    44,467,077
    41,861,675

    Total stockholders' equity
    49,937,993
    46,120,346

    Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
    $114,729,806
    $92,066,092







See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







    26
    
    



Acme United Corporation and Subsidiaries



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY











    
    Outstanding Shares of Common Stock
    Common Stock
    Treasury Stock
    Additional Paid-In Capital
    Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
    Retained Earnings
    Total

    Balances, December 31, 2015
    3,348,543
    $11,876,895
    $(12,962,947)
    $9,460,008
    $(2,530,790)
    $37,340,395
    $43,183,561

    Net income
    
    
    
    
    
    5,850,998
    5,850,998

    Total other comprehensive income
    
    
    
    
    194,589
    
    194,589

    Stock compensation expense
    
    
    
    440,536
    
    
    440,536

    Tax benefit from exercise of
    
    
    
    
    
    
    

    employee stock options
    
    
    
    567,309
    
    
    567,309

    Distribution to shareholders
    
    
    
    
    
    (1,329,717)
    (1,329,717)

    Issuance of common stock
    37,905
    94,762
    
    299,776
    
    
    394,538

    Cash settlement of stock options
    
    
    
    (2,274,374)
    
    
    (2,274,374)

    Purchase of treasury stock
    (61,493)
    
    (907,094)
    
    
    
    (907,094)

    Balances, December 31, 2016
    3,324,955
    $11,971,657
    $(13,870,041)
    $8,493,256
    $(2,336,201)
    $41,861,675
    $46,120,346

    Net income
    
    
    
    
    
    4,052,479
    4,052,479

    Total other comprehensive income
    
    
    
    
    702,202
    
    702,202

    Stock compensation expense
    
    
    
    684,351
    
    
    684,351

    Distribution to shareholders
    
    
    
    
    
    (1,447,077)
    (1,447,077)

    Issuance of common stock
    49,106
    122,756
    
    526,466
    
    
    649,222

    Cash settlement of stock options
    
    
    
    (823,530)
    
    
    (823,530)

    Balances, December 31, 2017
    3,374,061
    $12,094,413
    $(13,870,041)
    $8,880,543
    $(1,633,999)
    $44,467,077
    $49,937,993







See accompanying Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements. 




    27
    
    



Acme United Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS







    
    For the years ended December 31,

    
    2017
    2016

    Operating activities:
    
    

    Net income
    $4,052,479
    $5,850,998

    Adjustments to reconcile net income to net
    
    

    cash provided by operating activities
    
    

    Depreciation
    1,722,568
    1,490,805

    Amortization
    1,172,292
    930,941

    Stock compensation expense
    684,351
    440,536

    Deferred income taxes
    660,703
    100,529

    Changes in operating assets and liabilities
    
    

    Accounts receivable
    (5,230,159)
    499,940

    Inventories
    (1,846,765)
    (1,483,785)

    Prepaid expenses and other current assets
    82,679
    314,824

    Accounts payable
    3,733,667
    610,498

    Other accrued liabilities
    (220,939)
    101,927

    Total adjustments
    758,397
    3,006,214

    Net cash provided by operating activities
    4,810,876
    8,857,211

    Investing activities:
    
    

    Purchase of property, plant and equipment
    (3,146,194)
    (1,809,823)

    Purchase of patents and trademarks
    
    (29,371)

    Purchase ofbuilding
    (4,000,000)
    

    Acquisitions (Note 17)
    (7,233,114)
    (6,970,910)

    Net cash used by investing activities
    (14,379,308)
    (8,810,104)

    Financing activities:
    
    

    Net borrowings of long-term debt
    10,514,417
    7,023,205

    Borrowings on mortgage
    4,000,000
    

    Repayments on mortgage
    (22,222)
    

    Distributions to shareholders
    (1,408,428)
    (1,332,757)

    Cash settlement of stock options
    (823,530)
    (2,274,374)

    Excess tax benefit from the exercise of stock options
    
    567,309

    Purchase of treasury stock
    
    (907,094)

    Issuance of common stock
    649,231
    394,538

    Net cashprovided by financing activities
    12,909,468
    3,470,827

    Effect of exchange rate changes
    86,463
    (33,056)

    Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
    3,427,499
    3,484,880

    Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
    5,910,770
    2,425,891

    Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
    $9,338,269
    $5,910,770

    
    
    

    Supplemental cash flow information:
    
    

    Cash paid for income taxes
    $1,570,370
    $1,779,879

    Cash paid for interest expense
    $1,255,190
    $841,634







See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







    28
    
    

Acme United Corporation and Subsidiaries

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



1. Operations



The operations of Acme United Corporation
(the Company) consist of three reportable segments. The operations of the Company are structured and evaluated based
on geographic location. The three reportable segments operate in the United States (including Asian operations), Canada and Europe.
Principal products across all segments are scissors, shears, knives, rulers, pencil sharpeners, first aid safety kits, and related
products which are sold primarily to wholesale, contract and retail stationery distributors, office supply super stores, mass market
retailers, industrial distributors, school supply distributors, drug store retailers, sporting goods stores, hardware chains and
wholesale florists.



2. Accounting Policies



Estimates  The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The most
sensitive and significant accounting estimates relate to customer rebates, valuation allowances for deferred income tax assets,
obsolete and slow-moving inventories, potentially uncollectible accounts receivable, pension liability and accruals for income
taxes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.



Principles of Consolidation  The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned by the
Company. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.



Translation of Foreign Currency 
For foreign operations whose functional currencies are not U.S. dollars, assets and liabilities are translated at rates in effect
at the end of the year; revenues and expenses are translated at average rates in effect during the year. Resulting translation
adjustments are made directly to accumulated other comprehensive income. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are recognized
in operating results. Included in other income (expense) were foreign currency transaction gains of $24,404 in 2017 and foreign
currency transaction losses of $75,041 in 2016.



Cash Equivalents  Investments with
an original maturity of three months or less, as well as time deposits and certificates of deposit that are readily redeemable
at the date of purchase, are considered cash equivalents.



Accounts Receivable  Accounts receivable
are shown less an allowance for doubtful accounts of $166,907 at December 31, 2017 and $152,357 at December 31, 2016.



Inventories  Inventories are stated
at the lower of cost, determined by the first-in, first-out method, or net realizable value.



Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation
 Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost. Depreciation is computed by the straight-line method over the estimated
useful lives of the assets, which range from 3 to 30 years.



Intangible Assets  Intangible
assets with finite useful lives are recorded at cost upon acquisition, and amortized over the term of the related contract or
useful life, as applicable. Intangible assets held by the Company with finite useful lives include patents and trademarks.
Patents and trademarks are amortized over their estimated useful lives. The weighted average amortization period for
intangible assets at December 31, 2017 was 10  years. The Company periodically reviews
the values recorded for intangible assets to assess recoverability from future operations whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company
assessed the recoverability of its long-lived assets and believed that there were no events or circumstances present that
would that would require a test of recoverability on those assets. As a result, there was no impairment of the carrying
amounts of such assets and no reduction in their estimated useful lives.




    29
    
    

Deferred Income Taxes  Deferred
income taxes are provided for the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and on
operating loss carryovers, using tax rates in effect in years in which the differences are expected to reverse.



Revenue Recognition  Revenue is recognized
when the price is fixed, the title and risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer, and when collection is reasonably
assured. Depending on the contractual terms of each customer, revenue is recognized either at the time of shipment or upon delivery.
When revenue is recorded, estimates of returns are made and recorded as a reduction of revenue. Customer rebates and incentives
earned based on promotional programs in place, volume of purchases or other factors are also estimated at the time of revenue recognition
and recorded as a reduction of that revenue.



Research and Development  Research
and development costs ($752,000 in 2017 and $750,000 in 2016) are expensed as incurred.



Shipping Costs  The costs of shipping
product to our customers ($6,595,544 in 2017 and $5,388,481 in 2016) are included in selling, general and administrative expenses.



Advertising Costs  The Company
expenses the production costs of advertising the first time that the related advertising takes place. Advertising costs ($1,997,113
in 2017 and $1,934,250 in 2016) are included in selling, general and administrative expenses.



Subsequent Events 
The Company has evaluated events and transactions subsequent to December 31, 2017 through the date the consolidated financial statements
were included in this Form10-K and filed with the SEC.



Concentration  The Company performs
ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and generally does not require collateral for the extension of credit. Allowances for
credit losses are provided and have been within management's expectations. In 2017 and 2016, the Company had two customers that
individually exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales. Net sales to these customers amounted to approximately 16% and 11%, respectively,
in 2017 and approximately 14% and 11%, respectively, for each in 2016.



Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting
Standards



In
January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Auditing Standards Update (ASU) No. 2017-04, Intangibles
 Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. ASU 2017-04 simplifies the subsequent
measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Under the new amendments, an entity should perform
its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An entity
should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting units fair value.
We adopted this guidance prospectively at the beginning of first quarter 2017 and it has not had a material impact on our financial
statements.



In
January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business.
The new guidance clarifies the definition of a business in order to allow for the evaluation of whether transactions should be
accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect that ASU 2017-01 will have a material
impact on our financial statements.




    30
    
    



In
February 2016, the FASB issued guidance that will change the requirements for accounting for leases. The principal change under
the new accounting guidance is that lessees under leases classified as operating leases will recognize a right-of-use asset and
a lease liability. Current lease accounting does not require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities arising under operating
leases on the balance sheet. Under the new guidance, lessees (including lessees under leases classified as finance leases and
operating leases) will recognize a right-to-use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet, initially measured as the present
value of lease payments under the lease. Expense recognition and cash flow presentation guidance will be based upon whether the
lease is classified as an operating lease or a finance lease (the classification criteria for distinguishing between finance leases
and operating leases is substantially similar to the classification criteria for distinguishing between capital leases and operating
leases under current guidance). The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning
after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition
approach for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period
presented in the financial statements; the guidance provides certain practical expedients. The Company is currently evaluating
this guidance to determine its impact on the Companys results of operations, cash flows and financial position.







In March
2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09 to improve the accounting for employee share-based payments. This standard simplifies several
aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of
awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows, as part of FASBs simplification
initiative to reduce cost and complexity in accounting standards while maintaining or improving the usefulness of the information
provided to the users of financial statements. The new standard was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2017. The
adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of excess tax benefits in the amount of approximately $350,000 in our
provision for income taxes within the  Consolidated Statement of Operations for the twelve months ended December 31,
2017, rather than additional paid-in capital. Additionally,
our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows now present excess tax benefits as an operating activity included in other
accrued liabilities, adjusted prospectively.



In November
2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes (Topic 740), which simplifies the presentation
of deferred income taxes. This ASU requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a statement
of financial position. ASU 2015-17 may be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively and is effective for reporting periods
beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company adopted this ASU retrospectively, resulting in a reclassification of its net current
deferred tax asset of $501,708 to the net non-current deferred tax asset on its consolidated balance sheet as of December 31,
2016.



In
August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, which defers the effective date of ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with
Customers (Topic 606) by one year. ASU 2015-14 is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model requiring a company to recognize
revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount reflecting the consideration it expects to receive
in exchange for those goods or services. As a result, the ASU is now effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those
years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which for us is the first quarter of 2018. The Company has elected to adopt the new
guidance using the modified retrospective method. We have completed our analysis of the impact this guidance will have on our
consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, and other than an increase in the level of disclosures, we do not expect
the impact to be material.

In
February 2018, the FASB issuedASU No. 2018-02 Income Statement  Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification
of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.ASU No. 2018-02 provides companies with an option
to reclassify stranded tax effects within accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) to retained earnings in
each period in which the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (or portion
thereof) is recorded.ASU No. 2018-02 also requires disclosure of a description of the accounting policy for releasing income
tax effects from AOCI and whether an election was made to reclassify the stranded income tax effects from the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act.ASU No. 2018-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018, and interim periods within those
fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. Companies can adopt the provisions ofASU No. 2018-02in either the period
of adoption or retrospectively to each period (or periods) in which the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income
tax rate in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is recognized. The Company is beginning to evaluate the potential impact the adoption ofASU
No. 2018-02 will have on the Companys consolidated financial statements.




    31
    
    



3. Inventories





    
    December 31,

    Inventories consisted of:
    2017
    2016

    Finished goods
    $33,110,826
    $33,971,922

    Work in process
    193,557
    187,833

    Materials and
    supplies
    6,782,488
    3,078,106

    
    $40,086,871
    $37,237,861








Inventories are stated net of valuation
allowances for slow moving and obsolete inventory of $654,855 as of December 31, 2017 and $677,253 as of December 31, 2016.





4.Intangible Assets and
Goodwill



    
    December 31,

    Intangible assets consisted of:
    2017
    2016

    
    
    

    First Aid Only Tradename, Customer List
    $8,910,010
    $8,910,010

    DMT Tradename, Customer List
    2,756,000
    2,756,000

    DMT Non-Compete
    183,000
    183,000

    Patents
    2,271,980
    2,271,980

    Trademarks
    663,698
    663,698

    Pac-Kit Tradename, Customer List
    1,500,000
    1,500,000

    Spill Magic Customer List
    3,965,000
    

    Spill Magic Trademarks
    1,034,000
    

    Spill Magic Non-Compete
    67,111
    

    C-Thru Customer List
    1,050,000
    1,050,000

    Subtotal
    22,400,799
    17,334,688

    Accumulated Amortization
    4,518,794
    3,346,502

    Subtotal Intangible assets
    17,882,005
    13,988,186

    
    
    

    Goodwill
    4,696,370
    3,948,235

    
    $22,578,375
    $17,936,421






Amortization
expense for patents and trademarks for the years ended December 31, 2017, and 2016 were $1,172,292 and $930,941, respectively.
The estimated aggregate amortization expense for each of the next five succeeding years, calculated on a similar basis, is as follows:
2018 - $1,215,549; 2019 - $1,165,086; 2020 - $1,160,466; 2021 - $1,158,641; and 2022 - $1,141,933. 



5.Other Accrued Liabilities



Other current and long-term accrued liabilities
consisted of:  







    
    December 31,

    
    2017
    2016

    Customer rebates
    $3,733,472
    $2,789,003

    Pension liability
    113,042
    205,071

    Accrued Compensation
    339,474
    1,192,822

    Dividend Payable
    371,207
    332,558

    Other
    1,655,531
    1,151,636

    
    $6,212,726
    $5,671,090







    32
    
    



6. Pension and Profit Sharing



United States employees, hired prior to
July 1, 1993, are covered by a funded, defined benefit pension plan. The benefits of this pension plan are based on years of service
and the average compensation of the highest three consecutive years during the last ten years of employment. In December 1995,
the Company's Board of Directors approved an amendment to the United States pension plan that terminated all future benefit accruals
as of February 1, 1996, without terminating the pension plan.



The Companys funding policy with
respect to its qualified plan is to contribute at least the minimum amount required by applicable laws and regulations. In 2017,
the Company did not contribute to the plan.



The plan asset weighted average allocation
at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, by asset category, were as follows:





    Asset Category
    2017
    2016

    Equity Securities
    67%
    65%

    Fixed Income Securities
    32%
    32%

    Other Securities / Investments
    1%
    3%

    Total
    100%
    100%





The Companys investment policy
for the pension plan is to minimize risk by balancing investments between equity securities and fixed income securities. Plan
funds are invested in long-term obligations with a history of moderate to low risk.



The pension plan asset information included
below is presented at fair value. ASC 820 establishes a framework for measuring fair value and requires disclosures about assets
and liabilities measured at fair value. The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure
fair value into three levels as follows:




Level 1  Inputs to the valuation methodology based on unadjusted quoted market prices in
active markets that are accessible at the measurement date.


Level 2  Inputs to the valuation methodology that include quoted market prices that are
not considered to be active or financial instruments for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly.


Level 3  Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair
value measurement.



The following tables present the pension plan
assets by level within the fair value hierarchy as of December 31, 2017 and 2016:





    2017
    Level 1
    Level 2
    Level 3
    Total

    Money Market Fund
    $
    $10,774
    $
    $10,774

    Equity Common and Collected Funds
    125,451
    711,143
    
    836,594

    Fixed Income Common and Collected Funds
    100,430
    302,001
    
    402,431

    Total
    $225,881
    $1,023,918
    $
    $1,249,799










    2016
    Level 1
    Level 2
    Level 3
    Total

    Money Market Fund
    $19,327
    $19,897
    $
    $39,224

    Equity Common and Collected Funds
    131,737
    705,523
    
    837,260

    Fixed Income Common and Collected Funds
    104,491
    313,752
    
    418,243

    Total
    $255,555
    $1,039,172
    $
    $1,294,727







    33
    
    



Other disclosures related to the pension
plan follow:







    
    2017
    2016

    Assumptions used to determine benefit obligation:
    
    

    Discount rate
    3.14%
    3.40%

    Changes in benefit obligation:
    
    

    Benefit obligation at beginning of year
    $(1,499,798)
    $(1,776,788)

    Interest cost
    (48,161)
    (55,811)

    Service cost
    (36,000)
    (36,000)

    Actuarial (loss) gain
    (20,289)
    99,019

    Benefits and plan expenses paid
    241,381
    269,782

    Benefit obligation at end of year
    (1,362,867)
    (1,499,798)

    
    
    

    Changes in plan assets:
    
    

    Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
    1,294,727
    1,417,572

    Actual return on plan assets
    196,479
    146,937

    Employer contribution
    
    

    Benefits and plan expenses paid
    (241,381)
    (269,782)

    Fair value of plan assets at end of year
    1,249,825
    1,294,727

    Funded status
    $(113,042)
    $(205,071)

    
    
    

    Amounts recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income:
    
    

    Net actuarial loss
    $913,870
    $1,128,647

    Prior service cost
    1,625
    2,168

    Total
    $915,495
    $1,130,815










Accrued benefits costs
are included in other accrued liabilities (non-current).  







    
    2017
    2016

    Assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost:
    
    

    Discount rate
    3.40%
    3.50%

    Expected return on plan assets
    6.00%
    6.00%

    Components of net benefit expense:
    
    

    Interest cost
    $48,161
    $55,811

    Service cost
    36,000
    36,000

    Expected return on plan assets
    (69,465)
    (76,138)

    Amortization of prior service costs
    543
    543

    Amortization of actuarial loss
    108,052
    124,854

    Net periodic benefit cost
    $123,291
    $141,070









The Company employs a building block
approach in determining the long-term rate of return for plan assets. Historical markets are studied and long-term historical relationships
between equity securities and fixed income securities are preserved consistent with the widely-accepted capital market principle
that assets with higher volatility generate higher returns over the long run.  Our expected 6% long-term rate of return on
plan assets is determined based on long-term historical performance of plan assets, current asset allocation and projected long-term
rates of return.



The following table discloses the change
recorded in other comprehensive income related to benefit costs:




    34
    
    





    
    2017
    2016

    
    
    

    Balance at beginning of the year
    $1,130,815
    $1,426,030

    Change in net loss
    (106,725)
    (169,818)

    Amortization of actuarial loss
    (108,052)
    (124,854)

    Amortization of prior service cost
    (543)
    (543)

    Change recognized in other comprehensive income
    (215,320)
    (295,215)

    Total recognized in other comprehensive income
    $915,495
    $1,130,815







The Company anticipates that in 2018,
net periodic benefit cost will include approximately $86,000 of net actuarial loss and $1,000 of prior service cost.



The following benefits are expected to
be paid:





    2018
    $186,000

    2019
    169,000

    2020
    152,000

    2021
    137,000

    2022
    122,000

    Years 2023 - 2027
    439,000






The Company also has a qualified, profit
sharing plan covering substantially all of its United States employees. Annual Company contributions to this profit sharing plan
are determined by the Companys Compensation Committee. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company contributed
50% of employees contributions, up to the first 6% contributed by each employee. Total contribution expense under this profit
sharing plan was $236,993 in 2017 and $188,518 in 2016.



7.Income Taxes



The amounts of income tax expense (benefit) reflected in operations is as follows:








    
    2017
    2016

    Current:
    
    

    Federal
    $1,263,124
    $566,361

    State
    32,737
    (5,648)

    Foreign
    693,297
    984,469

    
    1,989,158
    1,545,182

    
    
    

    Deferred:
    
    

    Federal
    431,454
    83,290

    State
    20,206
    17,233

    
    451,660
    100,523

    
    $2,440,818
    $1,645,705






The current state tax provision was comprised
of taxes on income, the minimum capital tax and other franchise taxes related to the jurisdictions in which the Company's facilities
are located.



A summary of United States and foreign
income before income taxes follows:





    
    2017
    2016

    United States
    $2,477,871
    $2,008,065

    Foreign
    4,015,426
    5,488,638

    
    $6,493,297
    $7,496,703









    35
    
    



As discussed in Note 10 below, for segment
reporting, Direct Import sales are included in the United States segment. However, the revenues are earned by our Hong Kong subsidiary
and related income taxes are paid in Hong Kong whose rate approximates 16.5%. As such, income of the Asian subsidiary is included
in the foreign income before taxes.



The following schedule
reconciles the amounts of income taxes computed at the UnitedStates statutory rates to the actual amountsreported
in operations:








    
    2017
    2016

    Federal income
    
    

    taxes at
    
    

    34% statutory rate
    $2,322,741
    $2,496,270

    State and local
    
    

    taxes, net of
    
    

    federal income
    
    

    tax effect
    39,783
    18,998

    Permanent items
    (370,978)
    (25,077)

    Transition tax on deemed repatriation
    
    

    of foreign earnings
    1,169,263
    

    Effect of federal rate change
    
    

    on deferred taxes
    74,462
    

    Foreign tax rate difference
    (699,047)
    (919,038)

    Change in deferred income tax
    
    

    valuation allowance
    (95,406)
    74,552

    
    
    

    Provision for income taxes
    $2,440,818
    $1,645,705






The following summarizes deferred income
tax assets and liabilities:





    
    2017
    2016

    Deferred income tax liabilities:
    
    

    Plant, property
    
    

    and equipment
    $563,289
    $604,271

    
    563,289
    604,271

    
    
    

    Deferred income tax assets:
    
    

    Asset valuations
    506,993
    720,189

    Operating loss
    
    

    carryforwards and credits
    (95,406)
    121,658

    Pension
    96,098
    227,681

    Foreign tax credit
    
    186,504

    Other
    469,844
    593,140

    
    977,529
    1,849,172

    Net deferred
    
    

    income tax asset before valuation allowance
    414,240
    1,244,901

    Valuation
    
    

    allowance
    95,406
    (74,552)

    Net deferred
    
    

    income tax asset
    $509,646
    $1,170,349









    36
    
    

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax
Act) was signed into law in December 2017 and includes a broad range of tax reforms, certain of which were required by
GAAP to be recognized upon enactment. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (SAB
118), which provides guidance on accounting for the tax effects of the Act. SAB 118 provides a measurement period that should
not extend beyond one year from the enactment date for companies to complete the accounting under ASC 740. In accordance with
SAB 118, a company must reflect the income tax effects of those aspects of the Act for which the accounting under ASC 740 is complete.
To the extent that a companys accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act is incomplete but it is able to determine
a reasonable estimate, it must record a provisional estimate in the financial statements. If a company cannot determine a provisional
estimate to be included in the financial statements, it should continue to apply ASC 740 on the basis of the provisions of the
tax laws that were in effect immediately before the enactment of the Act.









The Act introduced provisions that fundamentally
change the U.S. approach to taxation of foreign earnings. Under the Act, qualified dividends of foreign subsidiaries are no longer
subject to U.S. tax. Under the previously-existing tax rules, dividends from foreign operations were subjected to U.S. tax, and
if not considered permanently reinvested, we had recognized expense and recorded a liability for the tax expected to be incurred
upon receipt of the dividend of these foreign earnings. Although the Act excludes dividends of foreign subsidiaries from taxation,
it includes provisions for a mandatory deemed dividend of undistributed foreign earnings at tax rates of 15.5% or 8% ("transition
tax") depending on the nature of the foreign operations' assets. Companies may utilize tax attributes (including net operating
losses and tax credits) to offset the transition tax. The estimated provisional net effect of applying the provisions of the Act
on our 2017 results of operations was a non-cash charge to tax expense of $1,170,000. This provisional amount could be revised
as additional guidance and interpretations are issued and as we continue to examine the details of the Act and the related tax
attributes.



Based on our historical financial performance
in the U.S., at December 31, 2017, we have a significant net deferred tax asset position. As such, with the Act's reduction of
the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, we re-measured our net deferred tax assets at the lower corporate rate of 21% and recognized
a $75,000 tax expense to adjust net deferred tax assets to the reduced value.



The total effect in 2017 of applying the U.S.
tax reform provisions of the Act was tax expense of $1,245,000 increasing the effective rate for 2017 by 128%.







In 2017, the Company evaluated its tax positions
for years which remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions, in accordance with the requirements of ASC 740 and as
a result, concluded no adjustment was necessary. The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and various
state and foreign jurisdictions. The Companys evaluation of uncertain tax positions was performed for the tax years ended
December 31, 2013 and forward, the tax years which remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions as of December 31,
2017.



In accordance with the Companys accounting
policies, any interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recognized as a component of income tax expense.



Due to the uncertain nature of the realization
of the Company's deferred income tax assets based on past performance of its German subsidiary and carry forward expiration dates,
the Company has recorded a valuation allowance for the amount of deferred income tax assets which are not expected to be realized.
This valuation allowance, all of which is related to deferred tax assets resulting from net operating losses of the Companys
German subsidiary, is subject to periodic review, and, if the allowance is reduced, the tax benefit will be recorded in future
operations as a reduction of the Company's tax expense.



8. Long-Term Debt and Shareholders
Equity



On May 6, 2016, the Company amended its revolving
credit loan agreement with HSBC Bank, N.A. The amended facility provides for borrowings of up to an aggregate of $50 million at
an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.0%.




    37
    
    





On January 27, 2017, the Company amended its
revolving credit loan agreement with HSBC Bank, N.A. on a temporary basis in order to provide for the funding of the Companys
acquisition of the assets of Spill Magic, Inc. as described in Note 17. The amended facility provided for an increase in borrowings
from $50 million to $55 million for the period commencing April 1, 2017 and ending on September 30, 2017. Commencing October 1,
2017, the maximum amount outstanding at any time under the facility returned to $50 million. The interest rate on borrowings remains
unchanged at a rate of LIBOR plus 2.0%. In addition, the Company must pay a facility fee, payable quarterly, in an amount equal
to two tenths of one percent (.20%) per annum of the average daily unused portion of the revolving credit line. All principal amounts
outstanding under the agreement are required to be repaid in a single amount on May 6, 2019, the date the agreement expires; interest
is payable monthly. Funds borrowed under the agreement may be used for working capital, acquisitions, general operating expenses,
share repurchases and certain other purposes.



Under the revolving
loan agreement, the Company is required to maintain specific amounts of tangible net worth, a specified total liabilities to net
worth ratio, and a fixed charge coverage ratio, and must have annual net income greater than $0, measured as of the end of each
fiscal year. Specifically, under the loan agreement, the Company was required to maintain a ratio of total liabilities
to tangible net worth of not more than 2.25 to 1, calculated
as at December 31, 2017. However, at December 31, 2017, the Companys ratio was 2.37 to 1, or 5% higher than the maximum
permitted ratio. The Company was not in compliance with the covenant at that date due solely to the impact on the Company of the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which was enacted into law in December 2017, as a result of which the Company incurred a one-time, non-cash
charge of $1,170,000 in the fourth quarter of 2017 relating to taxation of the Companys foreign earnings. The Company and
HSBC Bank, N.A. subsequently agreed to amend the loan agreement to increase the permitted ratio of total liabilities to tangible
net worth from 2.25 to 1 to 2.50 to 1, effective for the quarter ended December 31, 2017. All other covenants remain unchanged.
Accordingly, as of December 31, 2017, the Company was in compliance with the covenants of the loan agreement as so amended.











Long
term debt consists of borrowings under the Companys revolving loan agreement with HSBC Bank, N.A. As of December 31, 2017,
$43,450,000 was outstanding and $6,550,000 was available for borrowing under the Companys revolving loan agreement. 



On October 26, 2017, the Company exercised
its option to purchase its First Aid Only manufacturing and distribution center in Vancouver, WA for $4.0 million. The property
consists of 53,000 square feet of office, manufacturing, and warehouse space on 2.86 acres. The purchase was financed by a variable rate mortgage with HSBC Bank, N.A. at an interest rate of LIBOR
plus 2.5%. Commencing December 1, 2017, principal payments of $22,222 are due monthly, with all amounts outstanding due on maturity
on October 31, 2024. Minimum annual mortgage payments are due as follows: 2018 - $266,664; 2019 - $266,664; 2020 - $266,664; 2021
- $266,664; 2022 - $266,664 and thereafter - $2,644,458.



During the twelve months ended December
31, 2017, the Company did not repurchase any shares of its Common Stock. As of December 31, 2017, 41,227 shares may be purchased
in the future under the repurchase program announced in 2010.



9. Commitments and Contingencies



The Company leases certain office, manufacturing
and warehouse facilities and various equipment under non-cancelable operating leases. Total rent expense was $1,432,677 and $1,227,341
in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Minimum annual rental commitments under non-cancelable leases with remaining terms of one year
or more as of December 31, 2017 are as follows: 2018 - $992,665; 2019 - $627,467; 2020 - $530,454; 2021  $285,499; 2022 -
$18,000 and thereafter - $0.



There are no pending material legal proceedings
to which the Company is a party or, to the actual knowledge of the Company, contemplated by any governmental authority.




    38
    
    



10. Segment Information



The Company reports financial information based
on the organizational structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance.
The Companys reportable business segments include (1) United States; (2) Canada and (3) Europe. The financial results for
the Companys Asian operations have been aggregated with the results of its United States operations to form one reportable
segment called the United States segment. Sales in the United States segment include both domestic sales as well
as direct import sales. Each reportable segment derives its revenue from the sales of cutting devices, measuring instruments and
first aid products for school, home, office, hardware, sporting goods and industrial use.







Domestic sales orders are filled from the Companys
distribution centers in North Carolina, Washington and Massachusetts. The Company is responsible for the costs of shipping, insurance,
customs clearance, duties, storage and distribution related to such products. Orders filled from the Companys inventory
are generally for less than container-sized lots.







Direct Import sales are products sold by the
Companys Asian subsidiary, directly to major U.S. retailers who take ownership of the products in Asia. These sales are
completed by delivering product to the customers common carriers at the shipping points in Asia. Direct Import sales are
made in larger quantities than domestic sales, typically full containers. Direct Import sales represented approximately 11% and
17% of the Companys total net sales in 2017 and 2016, respectively.



The Chief Operating Decision Maker
evaluates the performance of each operating segment based on segment revenues and operating income. Segment revenues are defined
as total revenues, including both external customer revenue and inter-segment revenue. Segment operating earnings are defined as
segment revenues, less cost of goods sold and operating expenses. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective
reportable segments operations. Inter-segment amounts are eliminated to arrive at consolidated financial results.





The following table sets forth certain
financial data by segment for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016:

Financial data by segment:    

     







    Year Ended December 31, 2017
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    

    (000's omitted)
    United States
    Canada
    Europe
    Consolidated

    Net sales
    115,407
    6,935
    8,208
    130,550

    
    
    
    
    

    Operating income
    6,701
    775
    320
    7,796

    Assets
    104,431
    4,926
    5,373
    114,730

    Additions to property, plant and equipment
    7,014
    19
    113
    7,146

    Depreciation and amortization
    2,845
    8
    42
    2,895

    
    
    
    
    

    Year Ended December 31, 2016
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    

    Net sales
    $110,793
    $6,824
    $6,957
    $124,574

    
    
    
    
    

    Operating income
    7,769
    568
    105
    8,442

    Assets
    84,104
    3,882
    4,080
    92,066

    Additions to property, plant and equipment
    1,737
    7
    44
    1,789

    Depreciation and amortization
    2,362
    8
    23
    2,393







The following is a reconciliation of
segment operating income to consolidated income before taxes:




    39
    
    





    
    2017
    2016

    Total operating income
    $7,796
    $8,842

    Interest expense, net
    1,327
    869

    Other (income) expense, net
    (24)
    77

    Consolidated income before taxes
    $6,493
    $7,497

    
    
    

    Net Income
    $4,052
    $5,851






The table below presents revenue by geographic
area. Revenues are attributed to countries based on location of the customer.









    Revenues
    2017
    2016

    United States
    $114,231
    $109,823

    International:
    
    

    Canada
    6,935
    6,824

    Europe
    8,208
    6,957

    Other
    1,176
    970

    Total International
    $16,319
    $14,751

    
    
    

    Total Revenues
    $130,550
    $124,574












11. Stock Option Plans



The Company grants stock options under the
2012 Employee Stock Option Plan (the 2012 Employee Plan) and under the 2017 Non-Salaried Director Stock Option Plan
(the 2017 Director Plan). The Company also has two plans under which the Company no longer grants options but under
which certain options remain outstanding: the 2002 Employee stock Option Plan and the 2005 Non-Salaried Director Stock Option Plan
(the 2005 Director Plan).





The 2012 Employee Plan, which became
effective April 23, 2012, provides for the issuance of incentive and nonqualified stock options at an exercise price equal to
the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the option is granted. The terms of the options granted are subject to the
provisions of the 2012 Employee Plan. Options granted under the 2012 Employee Plan vest 25% one day after the first anniversary
of the grant date and 25% one day after each of the next three anniversaries. As of December 31, 2017, the number of shares available
for grant under the 2012 Employee Plan was 22,700. Under the terms of the Employee Plan, no option may be granted under that plan
after the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the plan. Options outstanding under the Companys 2002 Employee Stock Option
Plan have the same vesting schedule as the 2012 Employee Plan.



The 2017 Director Plan provides for the
issuance of stock options for up to a total of 60,000 shares of the Company's common stock to non-salaried directors. Under the
Director Plan, Directors elected after the effective date and at subsequent Annual Meetings who have not received any prior grant
under this or previous plans shall receive an initial grant of an option to purchase 5,000 shares of Common Stock (the Initial
Option). Each year, each elected Director not receiving an Initial Option will receive an option to purchase 5,000 shares
of Common Stock (the Annual Option). The Initial Option vests 25% on the date of grant and 25% on the anniversary
of the grant date in each of the following 3 years. Each Annual Option becomes fully exercisable one day after the date of grant.
The exercise price of each option granted equals the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the option is granted, and
expires ten (10) years from the date of grant. As provided in the Director Plan, no options may be granted under the Director Plan
after the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Plan, i.e., after April 24, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, the number of shares
available for grant under the 2017 Director Plan was 40,000.




    40
    
    

The 2005 Director Plan, as amended, provided
for the issuance of stock options for up to a total of 180,000 shares of the Company's common stock to non-salaried directors.
Under the Director Plan, Directors elected on April 25, 2005 and at subsequent Annual Meetings who have not received any prior
grant under this or previous plans received an initial grant of an option to purchase 5,000 shares of Common Stock (the Initial
Option). Each year, each elected Director not receiving an Initial Option received a 5,000 share option (the Annual
Option). The Initial Option vests 25% on the date of grant and 25% on the anniversary of the grant date in each of the
following 3 years. Each Annual Option becomes fully exercisable one day after the date of grant. The exercise price of each option
granted equals the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the option is granted, and expires ten (10) years from the
date of grant. As provided in the Director Plan, no options may be granted under the Director Plan after the tenth anniversary
of the adoption of the Plan, i.e., after April 25, 2015.





The Company has amended certain of its
stock option plans for both employees and directors to permit options to be exercised on a net basis and receive either cash or
shares of the Companys Common Stock. Specifically, optionees may, at the time of exercise of an option and subject to the
consent of the Company, elect either (i) to receive from the Company cash in an amount equal to the number of shares of Common
Stock subject to the option (or portion thereof) that is being exercised multiplied by the excess of (a) the fair market value
per share over (b) the exercise price per share of the option ( a net cash settlement); or (ii) to make payment
of the exercise price of the option by reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable upon exercise of
such option by the number of shares having an aggregate fair market value equal to the total exercise price of the option (or
portion thereof). In 2017, the Company paid a total of approximately $823,530 to optionees who had elected a net cash settlement
of their respective options.





A summary of changes in options issued under the Companys
stock option plans follows:





    
    2017
    2016

    
    
    

    Options outstandingat the
    
    

    beginning of the year
    1,088,278
    1,267,802

    Options granted
    313,900
    171,000

    Options forfeited
    (4,000)
    (33,825)

    Options exercised
    (109,098)
    (316,699)

    Options outstanding at
    
    

    the
    end of the year
    1,289,080
    1,088,278

    Options exercisable at the
    
    

    end
    of the year
    814,180
    769,403

    Common stock
    available for future grants at the end of the year
    62,700
    66,850

    Weighted average exercise price per share:
    
    

    Granted
    $24.87
    $21.41

    Forfeited
    19.12
    15.03

    Exercised
    13.13
    10.99

    Outstanding
    16.87
    14.18

    Exercisable
    13.38
    12.29






A summary of options outstanding at December
31, 2017 is as follows:

 
    







    
    Options Outstanding
    Options Exercisable

    Range
                                         of Exercise Prices
    Number
                                         
Outstanding
    Weighted-Average
                                         Remaining Contractual Life (Years)
    Weighted-
Average
                                         Exercise Price
    Number
                                         Exercisable
    Weighted-
Average
                                         Exercise Price

    $7.30
                                         to $10.38
    234,180
    3
    $9.57
    234,180
    $9.57

    $10.39
                                         to $13.68
    218,250
    4
    11.40
    218,250
    11.40

    $13.69
                                         to $16.98
    308,250
    6
    15.44
    268,000
    15.26

    $16.99
                                         to $24.43
    313,500
    9
    21.91
    72,750
    20.36

    $24.44
                                         to $28.20
    214,900
    9
    25.31
    21,000
    28.16

    
    1,289,080
    
    
    814,180
    






The weighted average remaining contractual
life of all outstanding stock options is 6 years.




    41
    
    

Stock Based Compensation

Stock-based compensation cost is measured at
the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period, which is generally
the vesting period. The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of employee and non-employee
director stock options. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payment awards on the date of grant, using an option-pricing
model, is affected by the Companys stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables.
These assumptions include estimating the length of time employees will retain their vested stock options before exercising them
(expected term), the estimated volatility of the Companys Common Stock price over the expected term (volatility)
and the number of options that will not fully vest in accordance with applicable vesting requirements (forfeitures).







The Company estimates the expected term of
options granted by evaluating various factors, including the vesting period, historical employee information, as well as current
and historical stock prices and market conditions. The Company estimates the volatility of its common stock by calculating historical
volatility based on the closing stock price on the last day of each of the 60 months leading up to the month the option was granted.
The risk-free interest rate that the Company uses in the option valuation model is the interest rate on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon
bond issues with remaining terms similar to the expected term of the options granted. Historical information was the basis for
calculating the dividend yield. The Company is required to estimate forfeitures at the time of grant and to revise those estimates
in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. The Company used a mix of historical data and future assumptions
to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures and to record stock-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected
to vest. All stock-based payment awards are amortized over the requisite service periods of the awards, which are generally the
vesting periods.







The assumptions used to value option grants
for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows:





    
    2017
    2016

    Expected life in years
    5
    5

    Interest rate
    1.82  1.95%
    1.07  1.24%

    Volatility
    .259-.277
    .236-.258

    Dividend yield
    1.5% - 1.6%
    1.6% - 2.0%

    
    
    




Total stock-based compensation recognized
in the Companys consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $684,351 and $440,536,
respectively. At December 31, 2017, there was approximately $1,809,742 of unrecognized compensation cost, adjusted for estimated
forfeitures, related to non-vested stock-based payments granted to the Companys employees. As of December 31, 2017, the
remaining unamortized expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3 years.

The weighted average fair value at the
date of grant for options granted during 2017 and 2016 was $4.83 and $4.05 per option, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value
of outstanding options was $8,841,377 at December 31, 2017. The aggregate intrinsic value of exercisable options was $8,260,579
at December 31, 2017. The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised during 2017 was $1,553,894.



12. Earnings Per Share



The calculation of earnings per share
follows:




    42
    
    





    
    2017
    2016

    Numerator:
    
    

    Net income
    $4,052,479
    $5,850,998

    Denominator:
    
    

    Denominator for basic earnings per share:
    
    

    Weighted average shares outstanding
    3,356,383
    3,327,867

    Effect of dilutive employee stock options
    368,220
    249,956

    Denominator for dilutive earnings per share
    3,724,603
    3,577,823

    Basic earnings per share
    $1.21
    $1.76

    Dilutive earnings per share
    $1.09
    $1.64






For 2017 and 2016, respectively, 205,500
and 203,000 stock options were excluded from diluted earnings per share calculations because they would have been anti-dilutive.









13.Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income



The components of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income follow:








    
    Foreign currency translation adjustment
    Net prior service credit and actuarial losses
    Total

    Balances, December 31, 2015
    $(1,582,632)
    $(948,157)
    $(2,530,790)

    Change in net prior service credit
    
    
    

    and actuarial losses, net of tax
    
    284,145
    284,145

    Translation adjustment
    (89,556)
    
    (89,556)

    Balances, December 31, 2016
    $(1,672,188)
    $(664,012)
    $(2,336,201)

    Change in net prior service credit
    
    
    

    and actuarial losses, net of tax
    
    87,461
    87,461

    Translation adjustment
    614,741
    
    614,741

    Balances, December 31, 2017
    $(1,057,447)
    $(576,551)
    $(1,633,999)












14. Financial Instruments



The carrying value of the Companys bank
debt is a reasonable estimate of fair value because of the nature of its payment terms and maturity.







15. Quarterly Data (unaudited)







    Quarters (000's omitted, except per share data)
    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    

    2017
    First
    Second
    Third
    Fourth
    Total

    Net sales
    $27,745
    $38,849
    $33,785
    $30,171
    $130,550

    Cost of goods sold
    17,181
    24,366
    21,559
    19,545
    82,651

    Gross profit
    10,564
    14,483
    12,226
    10,626
    47,899

    Net income
    659
    2,846
    1,202
    (655)
    4,052

    Basic earnings per share
    $0.20
    $0.85
    $0.36
    $(0.20)
    $1.21

    Diluted earnings per share
    $0.18
    $0.75
    $0.32
    $(0.16)
    $1.09

    Dividends per share
    $0.10
    $0.11
    $0.11
    $0.11
    $0.43

    
    
    
    
    
    

    2016
    First
    Second
    Third
    Fourth
    Total

    Net sales
    $25,288
    $40,997
    $31,913
    $26,377
    $124,574

    Cost of goods sold
    16,103
    26,302
    20,050
    16,564
    79,019

    Gross profit
    9,185
    14,695
    11,863
    9,813
    45,555

    Net income
    565
    3,267
    1,473
    545
    5,851

    Basic earnings per share
    $0.17
    $0.98
    $0.44
    $0.16
    $1.76

    Diluted earnings per share
    $0.16
    $0.91
    $0.40
    $0.15
    $1.64

    Dividends per share
    $0.10
    $0.10
    $0.10
    $0.10
    $0.40








Earnings per share were computed independently
for each of the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum of the four quarterly earnings per share amounts may not necessarily equal
the earnings per share for the year.




    43
    
    



16. Purchase of Property



On October 26, 2017, the Company exercised
its option to purchase its First Aid Only manufacturing and distribution center in Vancouver, WA for $4.0 million. The property
consists of 53,000 square feet of office, manufacturing, and warehouse space on 2.86 acres. The purchase was financed by a variable
rate mortgage with HSBC Bank, N.A. at an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.5%.







17. Business Combinations




A)Acquisition of the assets of Spill Magic, Inc.



On February 1, 2017, the Company purchased
the assets of Spill Magic, Inc., located in Santa Ana, CA and Smyrna, TN for $7.2 million in cash. The Spill Magic products are
leaders in absorbents that encapsulate spills into dry powders that can be safely disposed. Many large retail chains use its products
to remove liquids from broken glass containers, oil and gas spills, bodily fluids and solvents.



The purchase price was allocated to assets
acquired as follows (in thousands):























    Assets:
    

    Accounts Receivable
    $684

    Inventory
    453

    Equipment
    296

    Intangible Assets
    5,066

    Goodwill
    748

    Total
    assets
    $7,247













Assuming Spill Magic assets were acquired on
January 1, 2017, unaudited pro forma combined net sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 for the Company would have
been approximately $131.0 million. Unaudited pro forma combined net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 for the
Company would have been approximately $3.9 million.







Net sales for the twelve months ended December
31, 2017 attributable to Spill Magic products were approximately $6.5 million. Net income for the twelve months ended December
31, 2017 attributable to Spill Magic products was approximately $0.8 million.



Assuming Spill Magic assets were acquired on
January 1, 2016, unaudited proforma combined net sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, for the Company would have
been approximately $130.9 million. Unaudited proforma combined net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 for the
Company would have been approximately $5.5 million.




B)Acquisition of the assets of Vogel Capital, Inc



On February 1, 2016, the Company acquired the
assets of Vogel Capital, Inc., d/b/a Diamond Machining Technology (DMT) for $6.97 million in cash. DMT
products are leaders in sharpening tools for knives, scissors, chisels, and other cutting tools. The DMT products use finely dispersed
diamonds on the surfaces of sharpeners. The acquired assets include over 50 patents and trademarks.








    44
    
    



The purchase price was allocated to assets
acquired and liabilities assumed as follows (in thousands):





























    Assets:
    

    Accounts
    Receivable
    $1,145

    Inventory
    280

    Equipment
    262

    Prepaid
    expenses
    176

    Intangible Assets
    2,939

    Goodwill
    2,542

    Total
    assets
    $7,344







    Liabilities
    

    Accounts
    Payable
    $192

    Accrued
    Expense
    181

    Total
    liabilities
    $373







Assuming DMT was acquired on January 1, 2016,
unaudited proforma combined net sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 for the Company would have been approximately
$125.2 million. Unaudited proforma combined net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 for the Company would have
been approximately $5.9 million.






    45
    
    







REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM





To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
of

Acme United Corporation



Opinion on the Financial Statements







We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Acme United Corporation and Subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the related
consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders equity and cash flows for each
of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the financial
statements). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
the Company as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the two years in
the period ended December 31, 2017, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.



We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ("PCAOB"), the Company's internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on the criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in 2013 and our report dated March 15, 2018,
expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting.











Basis for Opinion



These financial statements are the responsibility
of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance
with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
PCAOB.



We conducted our audits in accordance with
the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures
to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures
that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made
by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.


/s/ Marcum LLP


We have served as the Companys auditor since 2008, such date
takes into account the acquisition of a portion of UHY LLP by Marcum LLP in April 2010.




marcum llp

New Haven, Connecticut

March 15,
2018




    46
    
    



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING



To the Audit Committee of the

Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Acme United Corporation



Opinion on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting



We have audited Acme United Corporation and
Subsidiaries (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework (2013) issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.



We have also audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets
as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders
equity, and cash flows for the years then ended of the Company and our report dated March 15, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion
on those financial statements.










Basis for Opinion



The Company's management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are
a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance
with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
PCAOB.



We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit of internal control over
financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that
our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.



Definition and Limitations of Internal Control
over Financial Reporting



A companys internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.




    47
    
    



Because of the inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.



/s/ Marcum llp

marcum llp

New Haven, Connecticut

March 15, 2018




    48
    
    



Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure



There have been no disagreements with
accountants related to accounting and financial disclosures in 2017.



Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.



An evaluation was performed under the supervision
and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness
of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934) as of December 31, 2017. Based on and as of the time of such evaluation, our management, including the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the
period covered by this report to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules
and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure.





Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.



Management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2017, based on the framework in Internal Control -Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission. Based on that evaluation our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting
was effective as of December 31, 2017. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017
has been audited by Marcum, LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its attestation report, which is
included in Item 8 and is incorporated into this Item 9A by reference.



Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.



No changes in our internal control over financial reporting were
identified as having occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely
to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



Item 9B. Other Information

None.




    49
    
    



PART III



Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers
and Corporate Governance



The following table sets forth certain
information with respect to the directors and executive officers of the Company. All directors of the Company hold office until
the next annual meeting of the shareholders or until their successors have been elected and qualified. Executive officers are elected
by the Board of Directors to hold office until their successors are elected and qualified.





    Name
    Age
    Position Held with Company

    
    
    

    Walter C. Johnsen
    67
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

    Brian S. Olschan
    61
    President, Chief Operating Officer and Director

    Paul G. Driscoll
    57
    Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer

    Rex L. Davidson
    68
    Director

    Richmond Y. Holden, Jr.
    64
    Director

    Susan H. Murphy
    66
    Director

    Stevenson E. Ward III
    72
    Director



Walter C. Johnsen has served as Chairman
of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since January 1, 2007; President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company
from November 30, 1995 to December 31, 2006. Mr. Johnsen previously served as Vice Chairman and a principal of Marshall Products,
Inc., a medical supply distributor. Mr. Johnsen has served on the Board of TOMI Environmental Solutions, Inc., a publicly traded
company, since February 1, 2016. Mr. Johnsens qualifications to serve on the Board of the Company include the in-depth knowledge
of all facets of the Companys business which he has gained during his more than twenty-one years of service as the Companys
Chief Executive Officer.



Brian S. Olschan has served as President
and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since January 1, 2007; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company
from January 1999 to December 31, 2006; Senior Vice President - Sales and Marketing of the Company from September 1996 to January
1999; Mr. Olschan previously served as Vice President and General Manager of the Cordset and Assembly Business of General Cable
Corporation, an electrical wire and cable manufacturer. Mr. Olschans qualifications to serve on the Board include his detailed
knowledge of the Companys operations which he has gained in his capacity as a member of senior management for more than
eleven years, including as Chief Operating Officer since January 1999 and President since January 2007.



Paul G. Driscoll has served as
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer since October 2, 2002. Mr. Driscoll joined Acme as Director
of International Finance on March 19, 2001. From 1997 to 2001, he was employed by Ernest and Julio Gallo Winery, including as Director
of Finance and Operations in Japan. Prior to Gallo he served in several increasingly responsible finance positions in Sterling
Drug Inc. in New York City and Sanofi S.A. in France.



Rex L. Davidson has served as Director
since 2006. Executive Director of the Helms Fund since 2013. The Helms Fund provides "gap financing" to socially
responsible business ventures for capital expenditures. Additionally, since 2009, Mr. Davidson has served as President of Rex Davidson
Associates, LLC, a management consulting service, and Executive Director of Las Cumbres Community Services, which provides developmental
disabilityand mental health services to children, adults and families in Northern New Mexico. From 1982 to 2009, he
served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Goodwill Industries of Greater New York and Northern New Jersey, Inc., and President
of Goodwill Industries Housing Corporation. Mr. Davidsons qualifications to serve on the Board include significant management
experience at the highest level, having been responsible for the management of Goodwill Industries, an organization with over 2,000
employees and revenues in excess of $100 million. Mr. Davidsons experience in the areas of compensation of personnel at
all levels, his experience relating to retail matters, such as retail trends and pricing, and diversity policies are of significant
benefit to the Company.




    50
    
    



Richmond Y. Holden, Jr. has served as
Director since 1998. Mr. Holden served as President and CEO of INgageHub, a cloud based Marketing SaaS platform, from January 2015
through early 2016; he continues to serve as a senior advisor to the company. From 2007 through 2014, Mr. Holden served in senior
executive positions at, School Specialty, Inc., a distributor of school supplies, equipment and curriculum products. He last served
as Executive Vice President of School Specialty, Inc., and President of the Curriculum Group, a division of School Specialty Inc.,
from 2013 to December 2014. He was President of Educational Resources, a division of School Specialty, Inc., from 2010 to 2013.
He served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of J.L. Hammett Co., a reseller of educational, curriculum, equipment, and products
from 1992 to 2006. Mr. Holden served on the Board of Directors of Software Secure, Incorporated, a privately-held company headquartered
in Newton, MA, which focused on secure online educational testing technology, from 2007 until its sale in late 2016. He has served
on the Board of Directors of Codman Academy Charter Public School in Boston MA since 2012. The qualifications of Mr. Holden to
serve on the Board of the Company include his substantial senior executive management experience of large complex companies in
the educational markets. In particular, as a result of his experience with School Specialty Inc., then a $650 million publicly
held reseller of educational products, Mr. Holden has broad knowledge of educational markets and operational matters relating to
developmental strategy, finance, marketing, sales, technology, sourcing, pricing and distribution.



Susan H. Murphy has served as Director
since 2003. Vice President Emerita, Cornell University, from which Dr. Murphy retired in 2016 after a 38-year career, commencing
in 1978. She served as Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid from 1985 to 1994; Vice President of Student and Academic Services
from 1994 to June 2015, and thereafter she worked in Alumni Affairs and Development until her retirement. In 2013, Dr. Murphy became
a member of the Board of Trustees of Adelphi University, and, since July 2016, has served as Vice Chair of its Board of Trustees.
She also serves on the Board of Directors for Kendal at Ithaca, a not-for-profit continuing care retirement community (since April
2014); Tompkins County Community Foundation (since January 2015 and Chair of the Board of Directors commencing in 2018); and Lets
Get Ready, an organization which provides low-income high school students with support services to help them gain admission to
and graduate from college (since September 2016). Dr. Murphy received a Ph.D. in Educational Administration from Cornell University.
Dr. Murphy has broad senior management level experience in a large, complex organization. In particular, her experience
in employee compensation matters and the development and implementation of diversity policies is helpful to the Company.



Stevenson E. Ward III has served as
Director since 2001. Mr. Ward served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Triton Thalassic Technologies, Inc. from
2000 until his retirement in 2014. Tritons technology controls and inactivates pathogens in the healthcare and industrial
industries. From 1998 through 2000, Mr. Ward served as Senior Vice President-Administration of Sanofi-Synthelabo, Inc., a major
multinational pharmaceutical company. He served as Executive Vice President (1996-1998), responsible for legal, tax, treasury,
employee benefits and other functions, and Chief Financial Officer (1994-1996) of Sanofi, Inc., the North American holding company
for Sanofi. He also served as Vice President-Finance and Administration, Pharmaceutical Group, Sterling Winthrop, Inc. (1992-1994).
Prior to joining Sterling, he was employed by General Electric Company in management positions in Purchasing, Corporate Audit and
Finance. Mr. Wards qualifications for service on the Board include his extensive experience in senior executive level positions
in finance, corporate audit and administration at two Fortune 100 multinational corporations. He also holds a Masters in Business
Administration (MBA) degree.



Code of Conduct



The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct that
is applicable to its employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. The Code of Conduct
is available in the investor relations section on the Companys website at www.acmeunited.com



If the Company makes any substantive amendments
to the Code of Conduct which apply to its Chief Executive Officer,Chief Financial Officer or Controller, or grants any waiver,
including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the Code of Conduct to the Companys executive officers, the Company will
disclose the nature of the amendment or waiver on its website.




    51
    
    



Information regarding compliance with
Section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting requirements and certain corporate governance matters is incorporated herein by reference
to the sections entitled (i) Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (ii) Nominations
for Directors, and (iii) Audit Committee contained in the Companys Proxy Statement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with its 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.







Item 11. Executive Compensation



Information with respect to executive
compensation is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled Executive Compensation contained in the
Companys Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC in connection with the Companys 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management



Information regarding security ownership
of certain beneficial owners, directors and executive officers is incorporated herein by reference to the information in the section
entitled Security Ownership of Directors and Officers contained in the Companys Proxy Statement to be filed
with the SEC in connection with its 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



Item 13. Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions, and Director Independence



Information regarding certain relationships
and related transactions is incorporated herein by reference to the information in the section entitled Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions contained in the Companys Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC in connection with its
2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



Information regarding director independence
is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled Independence Determinations contained in the Companys
Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the Companys 2018 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders.



Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees
and Services



Information regarding principal accountant
fees and services is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled Fees to Auditors contained in the Companys
Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC in connection with its 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



PART IV



Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules

(a)(1) Financial Statements.


Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Operations 


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm




    52
    
    

(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules


Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted because
of the absence of conditions under which they are required or because the required information is presented in the Financial Statements
or Notes thereto.

(a)(3) The exhibits listed under Item
15(b) are filed or incorporated by reference herein.

(b) Exhibits.

The exhibits listed below are filed
as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain of the exhibits, as indicated, have been previously filed and are incorporated
herein by reference.





    Exhibit No.
    Identification of Exhibit

    2
    Asset Purchase Agreement with First Aid Only, Inc. dated as of June 2, 2014(1)

    3(i)
    Certificate of Organization of the Company (2)

    
    Amendment to Certificate of Organization of Registrant dated September 24, 1968 (2) 

    
    Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated April 27, 1971 (3)

    
    Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated June 29, 1971 (3)

    3(ii)
    Bylaws (11)

    4
    Specimen of Common Stock certificate (3)

    10.3
    2002 Acme United Employee Stock Option Plan as amended (12)

    10.4
    Severance Pay Plan dated September 28, 2004* (15)

    10.5(a)
    Salary Continuation Plan dated September 28, 2004, as amended (14)*

    10.6(a)
    2005 Non-Salaried Director Stock Option Plan, amended (6)

    10.6(b)
    Amendment to the 2005 Non-Salaried Director Stock Option Plan (12)

    10.7
    2017 Non-Salaried Director Stock Option Plan (9)

    10.8
    Deferred Compensation Plan dated October 2, 2007* (16)

    10.9(a)
    2012 Acme United Employee Stock Option Plan (11) 

    10.9(b)
    Amendment to the 2012 Acme United Employee Stock Option Plan* (12)

    10.10(a)
    Revolving Loan Agreement with HSBC, dated April 5, 2012(13)

    10.10(b)
    Amendment
    No. 1 to Revolving Loan Agreement with HSBC dated as of April
    25, 2013(14)

    10.10(c)
    Amended
    and restated secured revolving note (14)







    53
    
    





    10.10(d)
    Amendment
    No. 2 to Revolving Loan Agreement with HSBC dated October 2013 (15)

    10.10(e)
    Amendment No. 4 to Revolving Loan Agreement with HSBC dated May 6, 2016 (12)

    10.10(f)
    Second amended and restated secured revolving note (12)

    10.10(g)
    Amendment No. 5 to Revolving Loan Agreement with HSBC dated January 2017 (16)


    10.10(h)



    Amendment
    No. 6 to Revolving Loan Agreement with HSBC dated March 14, 2018
    
    10.11
    Change
    in Control Plan effective as of December 31, 2010, as amended* (17)


    21
    Subsidiaries of the Registrant

    23.1
    Consent of MARCUM LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

    31.1
    Certification of Walter Johnsen pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) and Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

    31.2
    Certification of Paul Driscoll pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) and Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

    32.1
    Certification of Walter Johnsen pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

    32.2
    Certification of Paul Driscoll pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




*Indicates
a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement




(1)Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Companys Form 8-K/A
filed on August 19, 2014.


(2)Previously filed in S-1 Registration Statement No. 230682 filed with
the Commission on November 7, 1968 and amended by Amendment No. 1 on December 31, 1968 and by Amendment No. 2 on January 31, 1969.


(3)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-K filed
in 1971.


(4)Previously filed in the Companys Form 8-K filed on March 3,
2006.


(5)Previously filed in the Companys Form 10-K filed
                                                                                                     on March 18, 2005.


(6)Previously filed in the Companys Proxy Statement filed on
March 29, 2005. This plan expired in 2015.


(7)Previously filed in the Companys Form 10-K filed
                                                                                                     on March 18, 2005.


(8)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-K filed
on March 18, 2005.


(9)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Proxy Statement
filed on March 22, 2017.


(10)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-K filed
on March 12, 2008.


    54
    
    

(11)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-Q filed
on August 14, 2012.





(12)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-Q filed
on May 13, 2016.




(13)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-Q filed
on May 14, 2012.


(14)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-Q filed
on May 10, 2013.


(15)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-K filed
on March 6, 2014.


(16)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-Q filed
on August 4, 2017.


(17)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-K filed
on March 11, 2011.








    55
    
    



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized, on March 15, 2018.







ACME UNITED CORPORATION

(Registrant)








    Signatures:
    
    Titles:


    
    
    

    /s/ Walter C. Johnsen
    
    


    Walter C. Johnsen
    
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

    
    
    

    /s/ Brian S. Olschan
    
    

    Brian S. Olschan
    
    President, Chief Operating Officer and Director

    
    
    

    /s/ Paul G. Driscoll
    
    

    Paul G. Driscoll
    
    Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer

    
    
    

    /s/ Rex Davidson
    
    

    Rex Davidson
    
    Director

    
    
    

    /s/ Richmond Y. Holden, Jr.
    
    

    Richmond Y. Holden, Jr.
    
    Director

    
    
    

    /s/ Susan H. Murphy
    
    

    Susan H. Murphy
    
    Director


    
    
    

    /s/ Stevenson E. Ward III
    
    

    Stevenson E. Ward III
    
    Director









    56



























