
10-K
1
acu_10k123116.htm
10-K



     





UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K





    [X]
    ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF

    
    THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

    
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016

    
    

    
    OR

    
    

    [_]
    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF

    
    THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934




Commission file number 01-07698

ACME UNITED
CORPORATION

Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter





    Connecticut
    06-0236700

    (State or other jurisdiction of
    (I.R.S. Employer

    incorporation or organization)
    Identification No.)

    
    

    55 Walls Drive
                                                           Fairfield, Connecticut
    06824

    (Address of principal executive offices)
     (Zip Code)











Registrant's telephone
number, including area code (203) 254-6060



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Act:





    Title of each class
    Name of each exchange on which registered


    $2.50 par value Common Stock
    NYSE MKT











Securities registered pursuant to Section 12
(g) of the Act: None



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule405 of the Securities Act. YES [_]NO [X]



Indicate by check mark if the registrant is
not required to file reports pursuant to Section13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. YES [_]NO [X]



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(l) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

YES
[X]NO [_]



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted
and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (sec. 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). YES
[X]NO [_]



Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (sec. 229.405) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this Form 10-K. [_]






    1
    
    



Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of large accelerated
filer, accelerated filer and smaller reporting company in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act
(Check one).











    Large accelerated filer [_]
    Accelerated filer [_]

    
    

    Non-accelerated filer [_]
    Smaller Reporting Company [X]




Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). YES [_]NO [X]



The aggregate market value of the voting and
non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of the last business day of the registrants most recently completed
second fiscal quarter was $53,187,468.



Registrant had 3,327,455 shares of its $2.50
par value Common Stock outstanding as of March 3, 2017.



Documents Incorporated By Reference



(1) Certain portions of the Companys Proxy Statement for
the Annual Meeting scheduled for April 24, 2017 are incorporated into the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2016, Part III.






    2
    
    





    
    
    
    

    
    
    
        Page
    

    Part I
    
    
    

    
    
    

    Item 1.Business
    
    4
    

    
    
    

    Item1A.Risk Factors
    
    7
    

    
    
    

    Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments
    
    13
    

    
    
    

    Item 2.Properties
    
    13
    

    
    
    

    Item 3.Legal Proceedings
    
    13
    

    
    
    

    Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures
    
    13
    

    
    
    

    Part II
    
    
    

    
    
    

    Item 5.Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
    
    14
    

    
    
    

    Item 6. Selected Financial Data
    
    15
    

    
    
    

    Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    
    16
    

    
    
    

    Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
    
    21
    

    
    
    

    Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
    
    22
    

    
    
    

    Item 9.Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
    
    44
    

    
    
    

    Item 9A.Controls and Procedures
    
    44
    

    
    
    
    

    Item 9B.Other Information
    
    45
    

    
    
    

    Part III
    
    
    

    
    
    

    Item 10.Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
    
    45
    

    
    
    

    Item 11.Executive Compensation
    
    47
    

    
    
    

    Item 12.Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
    
    47
    

    
    
    

    Item 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
    
    47
    

    
    
    
    
    
    

    Item14.Principal Accounting Fees and Services
    
    47
    

    
    
    

    Part IV
    
    
    

    
    
    

    Item 15.Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
    
    48
    

    
    
    

    Signatures
    
    51
    






    3
    
    



PART I



Item 1. Business





Overview

Acme United Corporation, a Connecticut corporation (together, with
its subsidiaries, the "Company"), is a leading worldwide supplier of innovative cutting, measuring, first aid and sharpening
products to the school, home, office, hardware, sporting goods and industrial markets The Company's operations are in the United
States, Canada, Europe (located in Germany) and Asia (located in Hong Kong and China). The operations in the United States, Canada
and Europe are primarily involved in product development, marketing, sales, administrative, manufacturing and distribution activities.
The operations in Asia consist of sourcing, product development, production planning, quality control and sales activities. Total
net sales in 2016 were $124.6 million. The Company was organized as a partnership in l867 and incorporated in l882 under the laws
of the State of Connecticut.



The Company has grouped its operations into three reportable segments
based on the Companys geographical organization and structure: (1) United States (which includes its Asian operations);
(2) Canada and (3) Europe. Net sales in 2016 for each of our segments were: United States (including direct import sales from Asia)
- $110.8 million, Canada - $6.8 million, and Europe - $6.9 million. Refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional segment information.



The Company sources most of its products from suppliers located
outside the United States, primarily in Asia. The Company assembles its first aid kits primarily at its facility in Vancouver,
WA. The components for the first aid kits are primarily sourced from U.S. suppliers.



Business Strategy

The Companys business strategy includes
the following key elements:




a commitment to technological innovation achieved through consumer insight, creativity and speed to market;


a broad selection of products in both brand and private label;


prompt response;


superior customer service; and


value pricing.



Acquisitions



On February 1, 2017 the Company announced that
it had acquired the assets of Spill Magic, Inc., for $7.2 million in cash. The Spill Magic products
are leaders in in absorbents that encapsulate spills into dry powders that can be safely disposed. Many large retail chains use
its products to remove liquids from broken glass containers, oil and gas spills, bodily fluids, and solvents. Its easy-to-use and
environmentally friendly products permanently absorb the spills, leaving the floors underneath dry and reducing injuries from falls.
Spill Magic also sells spill clean-up kits and blood borne pathogen kits for the safety market. 



On February 1, 2016, the Company acquired
the principal assets of Vogel Capital, Inc., d/b/a Diamond Machining Technology (DMT) based in Marlborough, MA
for $7.0 million in cash. The DMT products are leaders in sharpening tools for knives, scissors, chisels, and other cutting
tools. They complement the Companys existing brands and products within the industrial, hardware, floral, food
preparation and sporting goods markets.



Principal Products

The Company markets and sells under three main
categories  School, Home and Office (Westcott brand), First Aid & Safety (First Aid Only, PhysiciansCare
Pac-Kit and Spill Magic brands) and Hardware, Industrial and Sporting Goods (Clauss, Camillus, Cuda and
DMT brands).




    4
    
    



School, Home and Office

Westcott

Westcott, with a history of quality dating back to 1872, provides
innovative cutting and measuring products for the school, home and office. Principal products under the Westcott brand include
scissors, rulers, pencil sharpeners, paper trimmers, lettering products and math tools. It is one of the leading scissor and ruler
brands in North America. The iPoint pencil sharpener, introduced in 2008, and its successor, the iPoint Evolution, have won GOOD
DESIGN awards from the Chicago Athenaeum, Museum of Architecture and Design.



Many of the Westcott branded cutting products contain patented titanium
bonding and proprietary non-stick coatings, making the blades more than three times harder than stainless steel as well as reducing
friction and corrosion. Significant product introductions in 2015 included a Carbo titanium line of scissors which are 8x harder
than steel allowing the blades to stay shaper longer. Westcott also launched a line of safety ceramic utility cutters for use in
home and office. Significant product introductions in 2016 included our new line of ergonomic scissors for children designed in
tandem with the US Ergonomics Institute.



Hardware, Industrial and Sporting Goods

Clauss

Clauss, with its roots dating back to 1877, offers a line of quality
cutting tools for professionals in the hardware & industrial, lawn & garden, food processing, sewing and housewares channels.
Many of the Clauss products are enhanced with the Companys patented titanium and proprietary non-stick coatings. In 2010,
the Clauss AirShoc garden tools were awarded a GOOD DESIGN award. In 2013, Clauss launched a family of titanium bonded non-stick
putty knives that are unique in their category.



Camillus

Since 1876 Camillus has been supplying the world with innovative
and high quality knives. The Camillus brand has a strong heritage in the hunting, sporting and tactical markets. The Company acquired
the brand in 2007 and re-launched it in 2009 with an updated and innovative line of fixed blade, folding knives and tactical tools.
Many of the knives are enhanced with Titanium Carbonitride coatings to increase the hardness of the blade of up to 10 times that
of untreated stainless steel.



In 2011, the Company signed an agreement with Les Stroud of the
TV show Survivorman, to co-design and co-brand a line of knives and survival tools. The first knives were introduced in 2012 and
include various types of folding and fixed blade knifes as well as machetes and survival tools.



In 2014, Camillus launched a wide variety of new products, including
the Camillus Carnivore X machete, Ravenous tomahawk, Heat Sizzle and WildFire knives and the Trench multitool. In 2015, Camillus
introduced Glide, its first pocket sharpener. In 2016, Camillus launched a new line of assisted folding knives using its patented
linkage system and its ball-bearing assisted system.





Cuda

We launched the Cuda line of fishing tools and knives in 2015. Featuring
titanium bonded steels and alloys, Cuda tools provide world class hardness, corrosion and adhesive resistance. In July of
2015, Cuda won Best of Show in the Fish Smart category at the ICast show in Orlando, Florida. In January 2016, Cuda
won six GOOD DESIGN awards from the Chicago Athenaeum, Museum of Architecture and Design.



DMT

DMT products are leaders in sharpening tools for
knives, scissors, chisels, skis, skates and many other edges that require sharpening. DMT was founded in 1976 by aerospace engineers.
The DMT products use a proprietary process of finely dispersed diamonds bonded to the surfaces of sharpeners.



First Aid & Safety



First Aid Only

The First Aid Only brand offers first aid kits, refills, and safety
products that meet regulatory requirements for a broad range of industries. The Smart Compliance first aid kit is a simple
and effective system for restocking workplace first aid cabinets.




    5
    
    



Pac-Kit

The Pac-Kit brand offers first aid kits, industrial stations and
refills, emergency medical travel and recreational kits for the industrial, safety, transportation and marine markets. The brand
has a long history dating back to the 19th century. Although Pac-Kits products are similar to the PhysiciansCare brand,
the Pac-Kit brand is especially known for its customized products which are designed to meet customer specifications.



PhysiciansCare

The PhysiciansCare brand offers a wide assortment of first aid kits,
emergency and disaster kits, kit refills, hearing, eye, and head protection, as well as ergonomic supports and braces. PhysiciansCare
also carries a branded line of over-the-counter medications, including the active ingredients aspirin, acetaminophen and ibuprofen.



Product Development



Our strong commitment to understanding our consumers and defining
products that fulfill their needs through innovation drives our product development strategy, which we believe is and will be a
key contributor to our success. The Company incurred research and development costs of $750,000 in 2016 and $690,000 in 2015.



Intellectual Property



The Company owns many patents and trademarks that are important
to its business. The Companys success depends in part on its ability to maintain patent protection for its products, to
preserve its proprietary technology and to operate without infringing upon the patents or proprietary rights of others. The Company
generally files patent applications in the United States and foreign countries where patent protection for its technology is appropriate
and available. The Company also considers its trademarks important to the success of its business. The more significant trademarks
include Westcott, Clauss, Camillus, PhysiciansCare, First Aid Only, Cuda, DMT  and Pac-Kit. Patents and trademarks are
amortized over their estimated useful lives. The weighted average amortization period remaining for intangible assets at December
31, 2016 was 8 years.





Product Distribution; Major Customers



Independent manufacturer representatives and direct sales are primarily
used to sell the Companys line of consumer products to wholesale, contract and retail stationery distributors, office supply
super stores, school supply distributors, industrial distributors, wholesale florists, mass market retailers and hardware chains
(including through their websites). The Company also sells a limited selection of its products directly to consumers through its
own websites. In each 2016 and 2015, the Company had two customers that individually exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales. In
2016, net sales to these customers amounted to approximately 14% and 11%, respectively of consolidated net sales, and 12% for each
in 2015.



Competition



The Company competes with many companies in each market and geographic
area. The Company believes that the principal points of competition in these markets are product innovation, quality, price, merchandising,
design and engineering capabilities, product development, timeliness and completeness of delivery, conformity to customer specifications
and post-sale support. The major competitors in the cutting category are 3M and Fiskars Corporation. The major competitors in the
measuring category are Maped and Staedtler. The major competitor in the pencil sharpener category is Bostitch. The major competitors
in the first aid & safety category are Honeywell, 3M and Johnson & Johnson.



Seasonality



Traditionally, the Companys sales are
stronger in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year due to the seasonal nature of the back-to-school business.






    6
    
    



Compliance with Environmental Laws 



The Company believes that it is in compliance
with applicable environmental laws. The Company anticipates that no material adverse financial impact will result from compliance
with current environmental rules and regulations. On April 7, 2014, the Company sold its Fremont, NC distribution facility for
$850,000 in cash. Under the terms of the sales agreement, the Company is responsible for environmental remediation on the property.
As a result of studies and estimates prepared by an independent environmental consulting firm, and in conjunction with the sale
of the property, the Company recorded a liability of $300,000 in the second quarter of 2014, related to the remediation of the
property. The accrual included the total estimated costs of remedial activities and post-remediation operating and maintenance
costs. Remediation work on the Fremont project began in the third quarter of 2014 and was completed in 2015. In addition to the
remediation work, the Company, with the assistance of its independent environmental consulting firm, must continue to monitor contaminant
levels on the property to ensure they comply with governmental standards. The Company expects that the monitoring period will last
a period of five years after the completion of the remediation and be complete by the end of 2020.



See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
this report for additional information regarding the cost of remediation and related matters, including ongoing monitoring of contaminant
levels.



Employees 



As of December 31, 2016, the Company employed 400 people, all of
whom are full time and none of whom is covered by union contracts. Employee relations are considered good and no foreseeable problems
with the work force are evident.



Available Information



The Company files its annual reports on
Form10-K, quarterly reports on Form10-Q and current reports on Form8-K pursuant to Section13(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the SEC electronically. These filings may also be read and copied at the SECs Public
Reference Room which is located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation
of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site
is http://www.sec.gov.



You may obtain at no charge, a copy of
the Companys annual reports on Form10-K, quarterly reports on Form10-Q and current reports on Form8-K
and amendments to those reports on the Companys website at http://www.acmeunited.com or by contacting the Investor Relations
Department at the Companys corporate offices by calling (203)254-6060. Such reports and other information are made
available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC.



Item 1A. Risk Factors



The Company is subject to a number of significant operational
risks that might cause the Companys actual results to vary materially from its forecasts, targets or projections, including:




achieving planned revenue and profit growth in each of the Company's
business segments;




changes in customer requirements and in the volume of sales to principal
customers;




the timing of orders and shipments;




emergence of new competitors or consolidation of existing competitors;
and




industry demand fluctuations.






    7
    
    



The Companys expectations for both short and long-term future
net revenues are based on the Companys estimates of future demand. Orders from the Companys principal customers are
ultimately based on demand from end-users and end-user demand can be difficult to predict. Low end-user demand would negatively
affect orders the Company receives from distributors and other principal customers which could, in turn adversely affect the Companys
revenues in any fiscal period. If the Companys estimates of sales are not accurate and the Company experiences unforeseen
variability in its revenues and operating results, the Company may be unable to adjust its expense levels accordingly and its profit
margins could be adversely affected.







Because our products are primarily sold
by third parties, our financial results depend in part on the financial health of these parties and any loss of a third party distributor
could adversely affect the Companys revenues.

A number of the Companys products are sold through third-party
distributors and large retailers. Some of our distributors also market products that compete with our products. Changes in the
financial or business conditions or the purchasing decisions of these third parties or their customers could affect our sales and
profitability.



Additionally, no assurances can be given that any or all of such
distributors or retailers will continue their relationships with the Company. Distributors and other significant retail customers
cannot easily be replaced and the loss of revenues and the Companys inability to reduce expenses to compensate for the loss
of revenues could adversely affect the Companys net revenues and profit margins.



The ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely
manner and to satisfy our customers fulfillment standards are subject to several factors, some of which are beyond our control.

Customers place great emphasis on timely delivery of our products
for specific selling seasons, especially during our second and third fiscal quarters, and on the fulfillment of consumer demand
throughout the year. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect product delivery to customers. Vendor production
delays, difficulties encountered in shipping from overseas and customs clearance delays are on-going risks of our business. We
also rely upon third-party carriers for our product shipments from our distribution centers to customers. Accordingly, we are subject
to risks, including labor disputes, inclement weather, natural disasters, possible acts of terrorism, availability of shipping
containers, and increased security restrictions associated with such carriers ability to provide delivery services to meet
our shipping needs. Failure to deliver products to our customers in a timely and effective manner, often under special vendor
requirements to use specific carriers and delivery schedules, could damage our reputation and brands and result in loss of customers
or reduced orders.



Reliance on foreign suppliers could adversely affect the Companys
business. 

The Company sources its products from suppliers located in Asia,
Europe and the United States. The Companys Asia vendors are located primarily in China, which subjects the Company to various
risks within the region including regulatory, political, economic and foreign currency changes. The Companys ability to
select and retain reliable vendors and suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality products efficiently will impact its
success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. The Companys sourcing operations and its vendors
are impacted by labor costs in China. Labor historically has been readily available at low cost relative to labor costs in North
America. However, as China is experiencing rapid social, political and economic changes, labor costs have risen in some regions
and there can be no assurance that labor will continue to be available to the Company in China at costs consistent with historical
levels or that changes in labor or other laws will not be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on the Companys
operations in China. Interruption of supplies from any of the Companys vendors, or the loss of one or more key vendors,
could have a negative effect on the Companys business and operating results.



Changes in currency exchange rates might negatively affect the profitability
and business prospects of the Company and its overseas vendors. In particular, although the Chinese Renminbi has recently depreciated
against the U.S. Dollar, if the Chinese Renminbi appreciates with respect to the U.S. Dollar in the future, the Company may experience
cost increases on such purchases, and this can adversely impact profitability. Future interventions by China may result in further
currency appreciation and increase our product costs over time. The Company may not be successful at implementing customer
pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related effects of the product cost increases.



Additional factors that could adversely affect the Companys
business include increases in transportation costs, new or increased import duties, transportation delays, work stoppages, capacity
constraints and poor quality.




    8
    
    



The Companys operations are increasingly global in nature.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions
in the countries in which we conduct business, by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and other factors related to our international
operations.

As our international operations and activities expand, we face increasing
exposure to the risks of operating in foreign countries. These factors include:





    
    
    
    Changes generally in political, regulatory or economic conditions in the countries in which we conduct business.









    
    
    
    Trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including government subsidies, tax benefits,changes in local tax rates, trade actions (such as anti-dumping proceedings) and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over the Company.





    
    
    
    
        Changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could adversely
        affect our competitive position, selling prices and manufacturing costs, and therefore the demand for our products in a particular
        market.
        

These risks could affect the cost of manufacturing and selling our
products, our pricing, sales volume, and ultimately our financial performance. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential
effect on the Company vary from country to country and are unpredictable.



Continuing uncertainty in the global economy could negatively
impact our business. 

Uncertainty in the global economy could adversely affect our customers
and our suppliers and businesses such as ours. In addition, any uncertainty could have a variety of negative effects on the Company,
such as reduction in revenues, increased costs, lower gross margin percentages, increased allowances for doubtful accounts and/or
write-offs of accounts receivable and could otherwise have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial
condition and cash flows.





The Companys business is subject to risks associated with
seasonality which could adversely affect its cash flow, financial condition, or results of operations.

The Companys business, historically, has experienced higher
sales volume in the second and third quarters of the calendar year, when compared to the first and fourth quarters. The Company
is a major supplier of products related to the back-to-school season, which occurs principally during the months
of May, June, July and August. If this typical seasonal increase in sales of certain portions of the Companys product line
does not materialize in any year, the Company could experience a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and
results of operations.





Failure to manage growth and continue to
expand our operations successfully could adversely affect our financial results.

Our business has experienced significant historical growth over
the years, and we expect our business to continue to grow organically and through strategic acquisitions. This growth places significant
demands on management and operational systems. If we cannot effectively manage our growth, it is likely to result in operational
inefficiencies and ineffective management of our business thus negatively impacting our operating results. To the extent we grow
through strategic acquisitions, our success will depend on selecting the appropriate targets, integrating such acquisitions quickly
and effectively and realizing any expected synergies and cost savings related to such acquisitions.





Loss of a major customer could result in a decrease in the Companys
future sales and earnings.

Sales of our products are primarily concentrated in a few major
customers including office product superstores and mass market distributors. In each of 2016 and 2015, the Company had two customers
that individually exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales. In 2016, net sales to these customers amounted to approximately 14% and
11%, respectively of consolidated net sales, and 12% for each in 2015. The Company anticipates that a limited number of customers
may account for a substantial portion of its total net revenues for the foreseeable future. The business risks associated with
this concentration, including increased credit risks for these and other customers and the possibility of related bad debt write-offs,
could negatively affect our margins and profits. Additionally, the loss of a major customer, whether through competition or consolidation,
or a disruption in sales to such a customer, could result in a decrease of the Companys future sales and earnings.




    9
    
    



The loss of key management could adversely affect the Companys
ability to run its business. 

The Companys success depends, to a large extent, on the continued
service of its executive management team, operating officers and other key personnel. The Company must therefore continue to recruit,
retain and motivate management and operating personnel sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth.
The Companys inability to meet its staffing requirements in the future could adversely affect its results of operations.







Failure to protect the Companys proprietary rights or
the costs of protecting these rights could adversely affect its business. 

The Companys success depends in part on its ability to obtain
patents and trademarks and to preserve other intellectual property rights covering its products and processes. The Company has
obtained certain domestic and foreign patents, and intends to continue to seek patents on its inventions when appropriate. The
process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive. There can be no assurance that pending patents related
to any of the Companys products will be issued, in which case the Company may not be able to legally prevent others from
producing similar and/or compatible competing products. If other companies were to sell similar and/or compatible competing products,
the Companys results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Companys
efforts to protect its intellectual property will be successful. Any infringement of the Companys intellectual property
or legal defense of such action could have a material adverse effect on the Company.



The Company is subject to intense competition in all of the markets
in which it competes. 

The Companys products are sold in highly competitive markets
including at mass merchants, high volume office supply stores and online. The Company believes that the principal points of competition
in these markets are product innovation, quality, price, merchandising, design and engineering capabilities, product development,
timeliness and completeness of delivery, conformity to customer specifications and post-sale support. Competitive conditions may
require the Company to match or better competitors prices to retain business or market shares. The Company believes that
its competitive position will depend on continued investment in innovation and product development, manufacturing and sourcing,
quality standards, marketing and customer service and support. The Companys success will depend in part on its ability to
anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various market categories
in which it competes. The Company may not have sufficient resources to make the investments that may be necessary to anticipate
those changing needs and the Company may not anticipate, identify, develop and market products successfully or otherwise be successful
in maintaining its competitive position. In addition there are numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing
innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not provide expected growth results. There are no significant
barriers to entry into the markets for most of the Companys products.



Compromises of our information systems or
unauthorized access to confidential information or our customers' or associates' personal information may materially harm our business
or damage our reputation.

Through our sales and marketing activities and our business operations,
we collect and store confidential information and certain personal information from our customers and associates. We also process
payment card information and check information. In addition, in the normal course of business, we gather and retain personal information
about our associates and generate and have access to confidential business information. Although we have taken steps designed to
safeguard such information, there can be no assurance that such information will be protected against unauthorized access or disclosure.
Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our or our vendors' network security and, if successful, misappropriate such information.
An Acme United associate, contractor or other third-party with whom we do business may also attempt to circumvent our security
measures in order to obtain such information or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. We could be subject to
liability for failure to comply with privacy and information security laws, for failing to protect personal information, or for
misusing personal information, such as use of such information for an unauthorized marketing purpose. Loss or misuse of confidential
or personal information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, financial
institutions, regulators, payment card associations, employees and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.



The Company may not be able to maintain or to raise prices in
response to inflation and increasing costs.

Future market and competitive pressures may prohibit the Company
from raising prices to offset increased product costs, freight costs and other inflationary items or to offset currency fluctuations.
The inability to pass these costs through to the Companys customers could have a negative effect on its results of operations.




    10
    
    



The Company may need to raise additional capital to fund its
operations. 

The Companys management believes that, under current conditions,
the Companys current cash and cash equivalents, cash generated by operations, together with the borrowing availability under
its revolving loan agreement with HSBC Bank N.A., will be sufficient to fund planned operations for the next twelve months. However,
if the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, it may be required to find additional funding sources. If
adequate financing is unavailable or is unavailable on acceptable terms, the Company may be unable to maintain, develop or enhance
its operations, products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or adequately respond to competitive pressures.





Changes in interest rates
could adversely affect us.

We
have exposure to increases ininterest ratesunder our revolving credit loan agreement with HSBC, N.A.
which presently bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 2%. In
response to the last global economic recession,  actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banking institutions,
were taken to create and maintain a low interest rate environment. However, in December 2015, the U.S. Federal Reserve raised
its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point for the first time since 2006. The U.S. Federal Reserve raised
this rate by an additional quarter of a percentage point in December 2016 and indicated that additional increases would
likely be forthcoming in 2017. While it is unclear whether these actions suggest a change in previous monetary policy
positions, any such change or market expectation of such change may result in significantly higher long-term interest rates.
Increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs on our variable-rate debt, as well as any future
fixed rate debt we may incur at higher interest rates, and interest which we pay reduces our cash available for working
capital, acquisitions, and other uses.











Product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely
affect the Company's financial results and reputation.

Claims for losses or injuries allegedly caused by some of the Companys
products arise in the ordinary course of its business. In addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability
claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the Companys reputation in the marketplace
or the value of its brands. The Company also could be required to recall possible defective products, which could result in adverse
publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability
claims are subject to a deductible or could be excluded under the terms of the policy.



The Company is subject to environmental
regulation and environmental risks. 

The Company is subject to national, state, provincial and/or local
environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations and prohibitions on the discharge and emission of, and establish standards
for the use, disposal and management of, certain materials and waste. These environmental laws and regulations also impose liability
for the costs of investigating and cleaning up sites, and certain damages resulting from present and past spills, disposals, or
other releases of hazardous substances or materials. Environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change often. Capital
and operating expenses required to comply with environmental laws and regulations can be significant, and violations may result
in substantial fines and penalties. In addition, environmental laws and regulations, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, in the United States impose liability on several grounds for the investigation and cleanup
of contaminated soil, ground water and buildings and for damages to natural resources on a wide range of properties. For example,
contamination at properties formerly owned or operated by the Company, as well as at properties it will own and operate, and properties
to which hazardous substances were sent by the Company, may result in liability for the Company under environmental laws and regulations.
The costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations and any claims concerning noncompliance, or liability with respect
to contamination in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations.
Refer to Note 16  Sale of Property - of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the environmental
costs related to the sale in 2014 of property owned by the Company in Fremont, NC.






    11
    
 

The ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely
manner and to satisfy our customers fulfillment standards are subject to several factors, some of which are beyond our control.

Customers place great emphasis on timely delivery of our products
for specific selling seasons, especially during our second and third fiscal quarters, and on the fulfillment of consumer demand
throughout the year. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect product delivery to customers. Vendor production
delays, difficulties encountered in shipping from overseas and customs clearance delays are on-going risks of our business. We
also rely upon third-party carriers for our product shipments from our distribution centers to customers. Accordingly, we are subject
to risks, including labor disputes, inclement weather, natural disasters, possible acts of terrorism, availability of shipping
containers, and increased security restrictions associated with such carriers ability to provide delivery services to meet
our shipping needs. Failure to deliver products to our customers in a timely and effective manner, often under special vendor
requirements to use specific carriers and delivery schedules, could damage our reputation and brands and result in loss of customers
or reduced orders.





Our shares of common stock are thinly traded and our stock price
may be volatile.

Because our common stock is thinly traded, its market price may
fluctuate significantly more than the stock market in general or the stock prices of other companies listed on major stock exchanges.
There were approximately 2,903,424 shares of our common stock held by non-affiliates as of December 31, 2016. Thus, our common
stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and, as a result, the trading price for shares
of our common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have
a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger.




    12
    
    



Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments



Not applicable to smaller reporting companies.







Item 2. Properties





    Location
    Square 
Footage
    
    Purpose

    Owned
    
    
    

    Rocky Mount, NC
    340,000 
    
    Warehousing and distribution

    Solingen, Germany
    35,000 
    
    Warehousing, distribution and administrative

    
    375,000 
    
    

    Leased
    
    
    

    Fairfield, CT
    15,400 
    
    Administrative

    Bentonville, AK
    1,500
    
    Administrative

    Vancouver, WA
    53,000 
    
    Manufacturing, warehousing and distribution

    Marlborough, MA
    28,000 
    
    Manufacturing, warehousing and distribution

    Santa Ana, CA
    10,000
    
    Manufacturing, warehousing, distribution and administrative

    Smyrna, TN
    13,000
    
    Manufacturing, warehousing and distribution

    Mount Forest, Ontario, Canada
    42,500 
    
    Warehousing and distribution

    Orangeville, Ontario, Canada
    2,850 
    
    Administrative

    Hong Kong, China
    2,750 
    
    Administrative

    Guangzhou, China
    3,500 
    
    Administrative

    Ningbo, China
    1,800 
    
    Administrative

    
    174,300 
    
    

    
    
    
    

    Total
    549,300 
    
    





Management believes that the Company's facilities,
whether leased or owned, are adequate to meet its current needs and should continue to be adequate for the foreseeable future.



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

There are no pending material legal proceedings
to which the Company is a party or, to the actual knowledge of the Company, contemplated by any governmental agency.



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures

Not Applicable









    13
    
    

PART II



Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity,
Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

The Company's Common Stock is traded on the
NYSE MKT under the symbol "ACU". The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices on the NYSE MKT for the
Common Stock for the periods indicated:





    Year Ended December 31, 2016
    High
    Low
    Dividends Declared

    Fourth Quarter
    $26.66
    $19.49
    $.10

    Third Quarter
    22.19
    18.42
    .10

    Second Quarter
    18.85
    15.95
    .10

    First Quarter
    17.97
    13.01
    .10

    
    
    
    

    Year Ended December 31, 2015
    
    
    

    Fourth Quarter
    $18.25
    $15.58
    $.10

    Third Quarter
    18.50
    15.99
    .09

    Second Quarter
    19.74
    17.05
    .09

    First Quarter
    20.30
    17.34
    .09




As of March 3, 2017 there were approximately
2,168 holders of record of the Company's Common Stock.



Performance Graph



The graph below compares the yearly cumulative total shareholder
return on the Companys Common Stock with the yearly cumulative total return of the following for the period 2011 to 2016:
(a) the NYSE MKT Index and (b) a diversified peer group of companies that, like the Company, (i) are currently listed on the NYSE
MKT, and (ii) have a market capitalization of $80 million to $90 million.



The Company does not believe that it can reasonably identify a peer
group of companies, on an industry or line-of-business basis, for the purpose of developing a comparative performance index. While
the Company is aware that some other publicly-traded companies market products in the Companys line-of-business, none of
these other companies provide most or all of the products offered by the Company, and many offer products or services not offered
by the Company. Moreover, some of these other companies that engage in the Companys line-of-business do so through divisions
or subsidiaries that are not publicly-traded. Furthermore, many of these other companies are substantially more highly capitalized
than the Company. For these reasons, any such comparison would not, in the opinion of the Company, provide a meaningful index of
comparative performance.



The comparisons in the graph below are based on historical data
and are not indicative of, or intended to forecast, the possible future performance of the Companys Common Stock.




    14
    
    









Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



On November 22, 2010, the Company
announced a Common Stock repurchase program of up to a total 200,000 shares. The program does not have an expiration date. During
the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, the Company repurchased 61,493 shares of its Common Stock. As of December 31, 2016,
41,227 shares may be purchased in the future under the repurchase program announced in 2010.





Item
6.Selected Financial Data

    

FIVE
YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA    

(All
figures in thousands except per share data)







    
    2016
    2015
    2014
    2013
    2012

    Net sales
    $124,574
    $109,812
    $107,222
    $89,577
    $84,370

    Net income
    $5,851
    $4,794
    $4,789
    $4,003
    $3,549

    Total assets
    $92,066
    $81,421
    $79,308
    $68,079
    $67,828

    Long-term debt, less current portion
    $32,936
    $25,913
    $24,147
    $22,912
    $24,320

    Net income
    
    
    
    
    

    Per share (Basic)
    $1.76
    $1.44
    $1.48
    $1.26
    $1.14

    Per share (Diluted)
    $1.64
    $1.30
    $1.36
    $1.22
    $1.13

    Dividends per share
    $0.40
    $0.37
    $0.34
    $0.31
    $0.28













    15
    
    



Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations



Forward-Looking Information

The Company may from time to time make written
or oral forward-looking statements including statements contained in this report and in other communications by the
Company, which are made in good faith pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on our beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available
to us. When used in this document, words like may, might, will, except,
anticipate, believe, potential, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. Actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.



These forward-looking statements include statements of the Companys
plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions, which are subject to change based on various important factors (some
of which are beyond the Companys control). The following factors, in addition to others not listed, could cause the Companys
actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward looking statements: the strength of the domestic and local
economies in which the Company conducts operations, the impact of uncertainties in global economic conditions, changes in client
needs and consumer spending habits, the impact of competition and technological change on the Company, the Companys ability
to manage its growth effectively, including its ability to successfully integrate any business or property which it might acquire,
and currency fluctuations. For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors affecting us, see the Risk Factors described
in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking
statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.



Critical Accounting Policies

The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and
results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The Companys significant accounting policies
are more fully described in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain accounting estimates are particularly
important to the understanding of the Companys financial position and results of operations and require the application
of significant judgment by the Companys management and can be materially affected by changes from period to period in economic
factors or conditions that are outside the control of management. The Companys management uses its judgment to determine
the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. Those estimates are based on historical operations,
future business plans and projected financial results, the terms of existing contracts, the observance of trends in the industry,
information provided by customers and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. The following discusses
the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates:



Estimates. Operating results may be
affected by certain accounting estimates. The most sensitive and significant accounting estimates in the financial statements relate
to customer rebates, valuation allowances for deferred income tax assets, obsolete and slow moving inventories, potentially uncollectible
accounts receivable, pension liability and accruals for income taxes. Although the Companys management has used available
information to make judgments on the appropriate estimates to account for the above matters, there can be no assurance that future
events will not significantly affect the estimated amounts related to these areas where estimates are required. However, historically,
actual results have not been materially different than original estimates.



Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes
revenue from the sales of its products when ownership transfers to the customers, which occurs either at the time of shipment or
upon delivery based upon contractual terms with the customer. The Company recognizes customer program costs, including rebates,
cooperative advertising, slotting fees and other sales related discounts, as a reduction to sales.



Allowance for doubtful accounts.The Company provides
an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon a review of outstanding accounts receivable, historical collection information and
existing economic conditions. The allowance for doubtful accounts represents estimated uncollectible accounts receivables associated
with potential customer defaults on contractual obligations, usually due to potential insolvencies. The allowance includes amounts
for certain customers where a risk of default has been specifically identified. In addition, the allowance includes a provision
for customer defaults based on historical experience. The Company actively monitors its accounts receivable balances, and its historical
experience of annual accounts receivable write offs has been negligible.






    16
    
    



Customer Rebates. Customer rebates and incentives are a common
practice in the office products industry. We incur customer rebate costs to obtain favorable product placement, to promote sell-through
of products and to maintain competitive pricing. Customer rebate costs and incentives, including volume rebates, promotional funds,
catalog allowances and slotting fees, are accounted for as a reduction to gross sales. These costs are recorded at the time of
sale and are based on individual customer contracts. Management periodically reviews accruals for these rebates and allowances,
and adjusts accruals when appropriate.



Obsolete and Slow Moving Inventory. Inventories are stated
at the lower of cost, determined on the first-in, first-out method, or market. An allowance is established to adjust the cost of
inventory to its net realizable value. Inventory allowances are recorded for obsolete or slow moving inventory based on assumptions
about future demand and marketability of products, the impact of new product introductions and specific identification of items,
such as discontinued products. These estimates could vary significantly from actual requirements if future economic conditions,
customer inventory levels or competitive conditions differ from expectations.



Income Taxes. Deferred income tax liabilities or assets
are established for temporary differences between financial and tax reporting bases and are subsequently adjusted to reflect changes
in tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce deferred
income tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized.



Intangible Assets and Goodwill. Intangible
assets with finite useful lives are recorded at cost upon acquisition and amortized over the term of the related contract, if any,
or useful life, as applicable. Intangible assets held by the Company with finite useful lives include patents and trademarks. The
weighted average amortization period for intangible assets at December 31, 2016 was 8 years. The Company periodically reviews the
values recorded for intangible assets and goodwill to assess recoverability from future operations whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company assessed the
recoverability of its long-lived assets and goodwill and believed that there were no events or circumstances present that would
that would require a test of recoverability on those assets. As a result, there was no impairment of the carrying amounts of such
assets and no reduction in their estimated useful lives. The net book value of the Companys intangible assets was $13,988,186
as of December 31, 2016, compared to $11,950,991 as of December 31, 2015, and the net book value of the Companys goodwill
was approximately $3,948,000 at December 31, 2016 and $1,406,000 at December 31, 2015.



Pension Obligation. The pension benefit obligation is based
on various assumptions used by third-party actuaries in calculating this amount.These assumptions include discount
rates, expected return on plan assets, mortality rates and other factors. Revisions in assumptions and actual results that
differ from the assumptions affect future expenses, cash funding requirements and obligations. Our funding policy is to fund
the plan in accordance with applicable requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations.



These assumptions are reviewed annually and updated as required.
The Company has a frozen defined benefit pension plan. Two assumptions, the discount rate and the expected return on
plan assets, are important elements of expense and liability measurement.



We determine the discount rate used to measure plan liabilities
as of the December31 measurement date. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the associated liabilities could
be effectively settled at the end of the year. In estimating this rate, we look at rates of return on fixed-income investments
of similar duration to the liabilities in the plan that receive high, investment grade ratings by recognized ratings agencies.
Using these methodologies, we determined a discount rate of 3.40% to be appropriate as of December31, 2016, which is a decrease
of 0.1percentage point from the rate used as of December31, 2015.



The expected long-term rate of return on assets considers the Companys
historical results and projected returns for similar allocations among asset classes. In accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, actual results that differ from the Companys assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and,
therefore, affect expense and obligation in future periods. For the U.S. pension plan, our assumption for the expected return on
plan assets was 6.0% for 2016. For more information concerning these costs and obligations, see the discussion in Note 6 
Pension and Profit Sharing, in the Notes to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.






    17
    
    



Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Stock based compensation
cost is measured at the grant date fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period. The
Company uses the Black-Scholes option - pricing model to determine fair value of the awards, which involves certain subjective
assumptions. These assumptions include estimating the length of time employees will retain their vested stock options before exercising
them (expected term), the estimated volatility of the Companys common stock price over the expected term (volatility)
and the number of options for which vesting requirements will not be completed (forfeitures). Changes in the subjective
assumptions can materially affect estimates of fair value stock-based compensation, and the related amount recognized on the consolidated
statements of operations. Refer to Note 11 - Stock Option Plans - in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report
for a more detailed discussion.



Results of Operations 2016 Compared with 2015



On April 7, 2014, the Company sold its Fremont,
NC distribution facility for $850,000 in cash. The facility originally served as a manufacturing site for the Companys scissors
and rulers. In conjunction with the sale of the property, the Company recorded a liability of $300,000 in the second quarter of
2014, related to environmental remediation of the property. The accrual included the total estimated costs of remedial activities
and post-remediation operating and maintenance costs. The balance remaining in the accrual at December 31, 2016 was approximately
$57,000. Additional information concerning the sale of the property is set forth in Note 16  Sale of Property, in the Notes
to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.



On February 1, 2016, the
Company purchased certain assets of Vogel Capital, Inc., d/b/a Diamond Machining Technology (DMT), located in Marlborough, MA.
DMT products are leaders in sharpening tools for knives, scissors, chisels and other cutting tools. The
DMT products use finely dispersed diamonds on the surfaces of sharpeners. The Company purchased inventory, accounts receivable,
equipment, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property for $6.97 million using funds borrowed under its revolving credit
facility with HSBC. Additional information concerning the acquisition of DMT assets is set forth in Note 17  Business Combinations,
in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.



Net Sales



In 2016, sales increased by
$14,762,000, or 13%, to $124,574,000 compared to $109,812,000 in 2015.



The U.S. segment sales increased by $14,144,000 or 15% in 2016 compared
to 2015. The increase in net sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 in the U.S. segment was primarily due to increased
sales of Westcott school and office products, Camillus knives, Cuda fishing tools and first aid products. Revenues from the acquisition
of DMT contributed $5.1 million.



Sales in Canada were constant
in U.S. dollars but increased 4% in local currency in 2016 compared to 2015.



European sales increased by
$572,000 or 9% in both U.S. dollars and local currency in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase in sales in Europe in 2016 was primarily
due to sales of DMT products and increased market share in the office products channel.



Gross Profit



Gross profit was 36.6% of net sales in 2016 compared to 36.0% in
2015.



Selling, General and Administrative





Selling, general and administrative
expenses were $37,113,000 in 2016 compared with $32,214,212 in 2015, an increase of $4,899,000 or 15%. SG&A expenses were 30%
of net sales in 2016 compared to 29% in 2015. The increase in SG&A expenses was primarily the result of incremental fixed costs
resulting from the acquisition of DMT assets and increases in delivery costs and sales commissions which resulted from higher sales
and higher personnel related costs, which include compensation and recruiting costs.






    18
    
    



Operating Income



Operating income was $8,442,000
in 2016, compared with $7,347,000 in 2015. Operating income in the U.S. increased by approximately $622,000 primarily as a result
of higher sales. Operating income in Canada increased by approximately $510,000 principally due to higher sales. Operating income
in the European segment decreased by approximately $40,000. Although sales and related gross margin increased in 2016 in Europe,
the Company made investments in increased headcount for sales and logistics personnel.



Interest Expense, Net



Net interest expense for 2016
was $869,000, compared with $565,000 for 2015, an increase of $304,000. The increase in interest expense, net for 2016, was primarily
the result of higher average borrowings during 2016 under the Companys bank revolving credit facility compared to 2015.



Other Expense, Net





Net other expense was $77,000
in 2016 compared to net other expense of $167,000 in 2015. The decrease in other expense, net for 2016, was primarily due to lower
losses from foreign currency transactions.



Income Tax





The effective tax rate in 2016 was 22%, compared
to 28% in 2015. Excluding the impact of a charitable product donation in 2016, the effective tax rate would have been 25%. The
3 point decline in the effective tax rate was due to a lower proportion of earnings from operations in the United States, which
has a higher tax rate than the countries in which our subsidiaries operate, compared to 2015.



Off-Balance Sheet Transactions



The Company did not engage in any off-balance sheet transactions
during 2016.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



During 2016, working capital increased by approximately
$5.0 million compared to December 31, 2015. Inventory increased by approximately $1.7 million, or 5%, which corresponds to the
increase in sales. The Company expects that changes in inventory levels will continue to be consistent with changes in sales, including
the seasonal impact on the Companys revenue stream. Inventory turnover, calculated using a twelve month average inventory
balance, increased to 2.1 from 2.0 at December 31, 2015. The reserve for slow moving and obsolete inventory was $677,253 at December
31, 2016 compared to $698,592 at December 31, 2015. We do not anticipate significant increases in the allowance for slow moving
and obsolete inventory in the ordinary course of business during 2017.



Receivables increased by approximately $400,000.
The average number of days sales outstanding in accounts receivable was 64 days in 2016 compared to 64 days in 2015. Accounts payable
and other current liabilities increased by approximately $.9 million.



At December 31, 2016,
total debt outstanding under the Companys revolving credit facility increased by approximately $7.0 million compared to
total debt at December 31, 2015. The change in debt was primarily due to borrowings to fund the acquisition of assets of DMT on
February 1, 2016. As of December 31, 2016, $32,935,858 was outstanding and $17,064,142
was available for borrowing under the Companys revolving credit facility. 




    19
    
    



On May 6, 2016, the Company amended its revolving credit loan agreement
with HSBC Bank, N.A. The amended facility provides for borrowings of up to an aggregate of $50 million at an interest rate of LIBOR
plus 2.0%. In addition, the Company must pay a facility fee, payable quarterly, in an amount equal to two tenths of one percent
(.20%) per annum of the average daily unused portion of the revolving credit line. All principal amounts outstanding under the
agreement are required to be repaid in a single amount on May 6, 2019, the date the agreement expires; interest is payable monthly.
Funds borrowed under the agreement may be used for working capital, acquisitions, general operating expenses, share repurchases
and certain other purposes. Under the revolving loan agreement, the Company is required to maintain specific amounts of tangible
net worth, a specified debt service coverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio and must have annual net income greater than
$0, measured as of the end of each fiscal year. At December 31, 2016, the Company was in compliance with the covenants then in
effect under the loan agreement with HSBC.



Capital expenditures
during 2016 and 2015 were $1,809,823 and $1,756,732, respectively, which were, in part, financed with borrowings under the
Companys revolving credit facility. Capital expenditures in 2017 are expected to increase approximately $1.0 million
over 2016 to increase capacity and upgrade equipment at the Companys recently acquired DMT and Spill Magic facilities.







The Company believes that cash on hand, and cash generated from
operating activities, together with funds available under its revolving credit facility, are expected, under current conditions,
to be sufficient to finance the Companys planned operations for at least the next twelve months.







Recently Issued Accounting Standards



In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance that will change the
requirements for accounting for leases. The principal change under the new accounting guidance is that lessees under leases classified
as operating leases will recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability. Current lease accounting does not require lessees
to recognize assets and liabilities arising under operating leases on the balance sheet. Under the new guidance, lessees (including
lessees under leases classified as finance leases and operating leases) will recognize a right-to-use asset and a lease liability
on the balance sheet, initially measured as the present value of lease payments under the lease. Expense recognition and cash flow
presentation guidance will be based upon whether the lease is classified as an operating lease or a finance lease (the classification
criteria for distinguishing between finance leases and operating leases is substantially similar to the classification criteria
for distinguishing between capital leases and operating leases under current guidance). The standard is effective for fiscal years,
and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard
must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition approach for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into
after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements; the guidance provides certain practical
expedients. The Company is currently evaluating this guidance to determine its impact on the Companys results of operations,
cash flows and financial position.



In March 2016, the FASB issued
ASU 2016-09 to improve the accounting for employee share-based payments. This standard simplifies several aspects of the accounting
for share-based payment award transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or
liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows, as part of FASBs simplification initiative to reduce cost
and complexity in accounting standards while maintaining or improving the usefulness of the information provided to the users of
financial state. The Company is still evaluating whether the adoption of this standard on January 1, 2017 will have a material
impact on its consolidated financial statements.



In August 2015, the FASB issued
ASU No. 2015-14, which defers the effective date of ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) by one year.
ASU 2015-14 is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model requiring a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of
goods or services to a customer at an amount reflecting the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or
services. As a result, the ASU is now effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December
15, 2017, which for us is the first quarter of 2018. Earlier application is permitted for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within those years, which for us is the first quarter of 2017. We do not expect this
ASU to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or disclosures.




    20
    
    



In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17,
"Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes" (Topic 740), which simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes.
This ASU requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a statement of financial position. ASU
2015-17 may be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively and is effective for reporting periods beginning after December
15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. The Company expects the adoption of this ASU to result in a reclassification of its net
current deferred tax asset to the net non-current deferred tax asset on it consolidated balance sheet.



In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11,
"Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory" (Topic 330). The new guidance changes the subsequent measurement of inventory
from lower of cost or market to lower of cost and net realizable value. ASU 2015-11 should be applied on a prospective basis and
is effective for the Company beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does not expect
the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure
about Market Risk



Not applicable to smaller reporting companies.






    21
    
    







Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data





Acme
United Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS






 







    
    For the years ended 
December 31,

    
    2016
    2015

    
    
    

    Net sales
    $124,574,371
    $109,811,768

    
    
    

    Cost of goods sold
    $79,019,315
    70,250,550

    
    
    

    Gross profit
    45,555,056
    39,561,218

    
    
    

    Selling, general and administrative expenses
    37,113,000
    32,214,212

    Operating income
    8,442,056
    7,347,006

    
    
    

    Non operating items:
    
    

    Interest:
    
    

    Interest expense
    (868,626)
    (570,080)

    Interest income
    119
    4,868

    Interest expense, net
    (868,507)
    (565,212)

    Other expense
    (76,846)
    (167,397)

    Total other expense, net
    (945,353)
    (732,609)

    Income before income tax expense
    7,496,703
    6,614,397

    Income tax expense
    1,645,705
    1,820,872

    Net income
    $5,850,998
    $4,793,525

    
    
    

    Earnings per share:
    
    

    Basic
    $1.76
    $1.44

    Diluted
    $1.64
    $1.30





See
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 











    22
    
    



Acme
United Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME













    
    For the Years Ended

    
    December 31,

    
    2016
    2015

    
    
    

    Net income
    $5,850,998
    $4,793,525

    Other comprehensive (loss) gain-
    
    

    Foreign currency translation
    (89,556)
    (830,867)

    Change in net prior service credit
    
    

    and actuarial gains (losses), net of
    
    

    income tax expense
    284,145
    (52,825)

    Total other comprehensive gain (loss)
    194,589
    (883,692)

    Comprehensive income
    $6,045,587
    $3,909,833





See accompanyingNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   











    23
    
    



Acme United Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  







    
    December 31,
    December 31,

    
    2016
    2015

    ASSETS
    
    

    Current assets:
    
    

    Cash and cash equivalents
    $5,910,770
    $2,425,891

    Accounts receivable, less allowance
    20,020,984
    19,565,088

    Inventories
    37,237,861
    35,507,591

    Deferred income taxes
    501,708
    389,961

    Prepaid expenses and other current assets
    1,791,871
    1,744,956

    Total current assets
    65,463,194
    59,633,487

    
    
    

    Property, plant and equipment:
    
    

    Land
    412,598
    417,209

    Buildings
    5,668,866
    5,418,101

    Machinery and equipment
    13,428,678
    10,254,070

    Total property, plant and equipment
    19,510,142
    16,089,380

    Less: accumulated depreciation
    11,537,242
    8,687,902

    Net plant, property and equipment
    7,972,900
    7,401,478

    
    
    

    Intangible assets, less accumulated amortization
    13,988,186
    11,950,991

    Goodwill
    3,948,235
    1,406,000

    Deferred income taxes
    668,641
    880,917

    Other assets
    24,936
    148,493

    Total assets
    $92,066,092
    $81,421,366

    
    
    

    LIABILITIES
    
    

    Current liabilities:
    
    

    Accounts payable
    $7,338,798
    $6,664,160

    Other accrued liabilities
    5,480,950
    5,272,593

    Total current liabilities
    12,819,748
    11,936,753

    Long-term debt
    32,935,858
    25,912,652

    Other accrued liabilities - non current
    190,140
    388,400

    Total liabilities
    45,945,746
    38,237,805

    
    
    

    STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
    
    

    Common stock, par value $2.50: authorized 8,000,000
    
    

    shares; issued - 4,788,965 shares in 2016 and4,751,060 shares in
 2015, including treasury stock
    11,971,657
    11,876,895

    Treasury stock, at cost, 1,464,010 in 2016
    
    

    and 1,402,517 shares in 2015
    (13,870,041)
    (12,962,947)

    Additional paid-in capital
    8,493,256
    9,460,008

    Accumulated other comprehensive loss
    (2,336,201)
    (2,530,790)

    Retained earnings
    41,861,675
    37,340,395

    Total stockholders' equity
    46,120,346
    43,183,561

    Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
    $92,066,092
    $81,421,366







See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 











    24
    
    



Acme United Corporation and Subsidiaries





CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY



       







    
    Outstanding Shares of Common Stock
    Common Stock
    Treasury
 Stock
    Additional Paid-In
 Capital
    Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
    Retained Earnings
    Total

    Balances, December 31, 2014
    3,291,352
    11,632,805
    (12,283,251)
    7,941,330
    (1,647,098)
    33,784,270
    39,428,056

    Net income
    
    
    
    
    
    4,793,525
    4,793,525

    Total other comprehensive loss
    
    
    
    
    (883,692)
    
    (883,692)

    Stock compensation expense
    
    
    
    513,986
    
    
    513,986

    Distribution to shareholders
    
    
    
    
    
    (1,237,400)
    (1,237,400)

    Issuance of common stock
    97,636
    244,090
    
    1,004,692
    
    
    1,248,782

    Purchase of treasury stock
    (40,445)
    
    (679,696)
    
    
    
    (679,696)

    Balances, December 31, 2015
    3,348,543
    11,876,895
    (12,962,947)
    9,460,008
    (2,530,790)
    37,340,395
    43,183,561

    Net income
    
    
    
    
    
    5,850,998
    5,850,998

    Total other comprehensive loss
    
    
    
    
    194,589
    
    194,589

    Stock compensation expense
    
    
    
    440,536
    
    
    440,536

    Tax benefit from exercise of
    
    
    
    
    
    
    

    employee stock options
    
    
    
    567,309
    
    
    567,309

    Distribution to shareholders
    
    
    
    
    
    (1,329,717)
    (1,329,717)

    Issuance of common stock
    37,905
    94,762
    
    299,776
    
    
    394,538

    Cash settlement of stock options
    
    
    
    (2,274,374)
    
    
    (2,274,374)

    Purchase of treasury stock
    (61,493)
    
    (907,094)
    
    
    
    (907,094)

    Balances, December 31, 2016
    3,324,955
    11,971,657
    (13,870,041)
    8,493,256
    (2,336,201)
    41,861,675
    46,120,346






See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     









    25
    
    



Acme United Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

  







    
    For the years ended December 31,

    
    2016
    2015

    Operating activities:
    
    

    Net income
    $5,850,998
    $4,793,525

    Adjustments to reconcile net income to net
    
    

    cash provided by operating activities
    
    

    Depreciation
    1,490,805
    1,318,357

    Amortization
    930,941
    734,496

    Stock compensation expense
    440,536
    513,986

    Deferred income taxes
    100,529
    (201,553)

    Changes in operating assets and liabilities
    
    

    Accounts receivable
    499,940
    (16,948)

    Inventories
    (1,483,785)
    (2,599,728)

    Prepaid expenses and other current assets
    314,824
    (123,267)

    Accounts payable
    610,498
    (1,065,428)

    Other accrued liabilities
    101,927
    (2,273,701)

    Total adjustments
    3,006,214
    (3,713,786)

    Net cash provided by operating activities
    8,857,211
    1,079,738

    Investing activities:
    
    

    Purchase of property, plant and equipment
    (1,809,823)
    (1,756,732)

    Purchase of patents and trademarks
    (29,371)
    (161,877)

    Proceeds from sales of plant, property and equipment
    
    4,980

    Acquisition of DMT
    (6,970,910)
    

    Net cash used by investing activities
    (8,810,104)
    (1,913,629)

    Financing activities:
    
    

    Net borrowings of long-term debt
    7,023,205
    1,765,811

    Distributions to shareholders
    (1,332,757)
    (1,198,848)

    Cash settlement of stock options
    (2,274,374)
    

    Excess Tax benefit from the exercise of stock options
    567,309
    

    Purchase of treasury stock
    (907,094)
    (679,696)

    Issuance of common stock
    394,538
    1,248,782

    Net cashprovided by financing activities
    3,470,827
    1,136,049

    Effect of exchange rate changes
    (33,056)
    (161,929)

    Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
    3,484,880
    140,231

    Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
    2,425,891
    2,285,660

    Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
    $5,910,770
    $2,425,891

    
    
    

    Supplemental cash flow information
    
    

    Cash paid for income taxes
    $1,779,879
    $2,412,008

    Cash paid for interest expense
    $841,634
    $563,837







See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  







    26
    
    



Acme United Corporation and Subsidiaries

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



1. Operations



The operations of Acme United Corporation (the
Company) consist of three reportable segments. The operations of the Company are structured and evaluated based on
geographic location. The three reportable segments operate in the United States (including Asian operations), Canada and Europe.
Principal products across all segments are scissors, shears, knives, rulers, pencil sharpeners, first aid kits, and related products
which are sold primarily to wholesale, contract and retail stationery distributors, office supply super stores, mass market retailers,
industrial distributors, school supply distributors, drug store retailers, sporting goods stores, hardware chains and wholesale
florists.



2. Accounting Policies



Estimates - The preparation of financial statements
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The most sensitive and
significant accounting estimates relate to customer rebates, valuation allowances for deferred income tax assets, obsolete and
slow-moving inventories, potentially uncollectible accounts receivable, pension liability and accruals for income taxes. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.



Principles of Consolidation - The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned by the Company. All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.



Translation of Foreign Currency - For foreign
operations whose functional currencies are not U.S. dollars, assets and liabilities are translated at rates in effect at the end
of the year; revenues and expenses are translated at average rates in effect during the year. Resulting translation adjustments
are made directly to accumulated other comprehensive income. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are recognized in operating
results. Foreign currency transaction losses, which are included in other expense, net, were $75,041 in 2016 and $202,587 in 2015.



Cash Equivalents - Investments with an original
maturity of three months or less, as well as time deposits and certificates of deposit that are readily redeemable at the date
of purchase, are considered cash equivalents.



Accounts Receivable - Accounts receivable are shown less an allowance
for doubtful accounts of $152,357 at December 31, 2016 and $104,760 at December 31, 2015.



Inventories - Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined
by the first-in, first-out method, or market.



Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation  Property,
plant and equipment is recorded at cost. Depreciation is computed by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
the assets, which range from 3 to 30 years.



Intangible Assets Intangible assets with
finite useful lives are recorded at cost upon acquisition, and amortized over the term of the related contract or useful life,
as applicable. Intangible assets held by the Company with finite useful lives include patents and trademarks. Patents and trademarks
are amortized over their estimated useful lives. The weighted average amortization period for intangible assets at December 31,
2016 was 8 years. The Company periodically reviews the values recorded for intangible assets to assess recoverability from future
operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. At December
31, 2016 and 2015, the Company assessed the recoverability of its long-lived assets and believed that there were no events or circumstances
present that would that would require a test of recoverability on those assets. As a result, there was no impairment of the carrying
amounts of such assets and no reduction in their estimated useful lives.



Deferred Income Taxes - Deferred income taxes are provided for the
differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and on operating loss carryovers, using tax
rates in effect in years in which the differences are expected to reverse.




    27
    
    



Revenue Recognition  Revenue is recognized when
the price is fixed, the title and risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer, and when collection is
reasonably assured. Depending on the contractual terms of each customer, revenue is recognized either at the time of shipment
or upon delivery. When revenue is recorded, estimates of returns are made and recorded as a reduction of  revenue. Customer
rebates and incentives are earned based on promotional programs in place, volume of purchases or other factors are also
estimated at the time of revenue recognition and recorded as a reduction of that revenue. 



Research and Development  Research and development costs
($750,000 in 2016 and 690,000 in 2015) are expensed as incurred.



Shipping Costs  The costs of shipping product
to our customers ($5,388,481 in 2016 and $4,597,663 in 2015) are included in selling, general and administrative expenses.



Advertising Costs  The Company expenses the production costs
of advertising the first time that the related advertising takes place. Advertising costs ($1,934,250 in 2016 and $1,717,456 in
2015) are included in selling, general and administrative expenses.



Subsequent Events - The Company
has evaluated events and transactions subsequent to December 31, 2016 through the date the consolidated financial statements were
included in this Form10-K and filed with the SEC.



Concentration  The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations
of its customers and generally does not require collateral for the extension of credit. Allowances for credit losses are provided
and have been within management's expectations. In 2016 and 2015, the Company had two customers that individually exceeded 10%
of consolidated net sales. In 2016, net sales to these customers amounted to approximately 14% and 11%, respectively, and 12% for
each in 2015.



Recently Issued Accounting Standards



In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance that
will change the requirements for accounting for leases. The principal change under the new accounting guidance is that lessees
under leases classified as operating leases will recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability. Current lease accounting
does not require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities arising under operating leases on the balance sheet. Under the new
guidance, lessees (including lessees under leases classified as finance leases and operating leases) will recognize a right-to-use
asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet, initially measured as the present value of lease payments under the lease. Expense
recognition and cash flow presentation guidance will be based upon whether the lease is classified as an operating lease or a finance
lease (the classification criteria for distinguishing between finance leases and operating leases is substantially similar to the
classification criteria for distinguishing between capital leases and operating leases under current guidance). The standard is
effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is
permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition approach for capital and operating leases
existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements; the
guidance provides certain practical expedients. The Company is currently evaluating this guidance to determine its impact on the
Companys results of operations, cash flows and financial position.



In
March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09 to improve the accounting for employee share-based payments. This standard simplifies
several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification
of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows, as part of FASBs simplification
initiative to reduce cost and complexity in accounting standards while maintaining or improving the usefulness of the information
provided to the users of financial state. The Company is still evaluating whether the adoption of this standard on January 1,
2017 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.




    28
    
    



In
November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, "Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes" (Topic 740), which simplifies
the presentation of deferred income taxes. This ASU requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current
in a statement of financial position. ASU 2015-17 may be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively and is effective for
reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. The Company expects the adoption of this ASU
to result in a reclassification of its net current deferred tax asset to the net non-current deferred tax asset on it consolidated
balance sheet.



In August 2015, the FASB issued
ASU No. 2015-14, which defers the effective date of ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) by one year.
ASU 2015-14 is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model requiring a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of
goods or services to a customer at an amount reflecting the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or
services. As a result, the ASU is now effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December
15, 2017, which for us is the first quarter of 2018. Earlier application is permitted for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within those years, which for us is the first quarter of 2017. We do not expect this
ASU to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or disclosures.



In July 2015, the FASB issued
ASU 2015-11, "Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory" (Topic 330). The new guidance changes the subsequent measurement
of inventory from lower of cost or market to lower of cost and net realizable value. ASU 2015-11 should be applied on a prospective
basis and is effective for the Company beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017. Early adoption is permitted. The Company
does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.



3.Inventories





    
    December 31,

    Inventories consisted of:
    2016
    2015

    Finished goods
    $33,971,922
    $29,802,745

    Work in process
    187,833
    169,540

    Materials and supplies
    3,078,106
    5,535,306

    
    $37,237,861
    $35,507,591












Inventories are stated net of valuation allowances
for slow moving and obsolete inventory of $677,253 as of December 31, 2016 and $698,592 as of December 31, 2015.







4.Intangible Assets and Goodwill  







    
    December 31,

    Intangible assets consisted of:
    2016
    2015

    
    
    

    First Aid Only Tradename, Customer List
    $8,910,010
    $8,910,010

    DMT Tradename, Customer List
    2,756,000
    

    DMT Non-Compete
    183,000
    

    Patents
    2,271,980
    2,242,844

    Trademarks
    663,698
    663,698

    Pac-Kit Tradename, Customer List
    1,500,000
    1,500,000

    C-Thru, Customer List
    1,050,000
    1,050,000

    Subtotal
    17,334,688
    14,366,552

    Accumulated amortization
    3,346,502
    2,415,561

    Subtotal Intangible assets
    13,988,186
    11,950,991

    
    
    

    Goodwill
    3,948,235
    1,406,000

    
    $17,936,421
    $13,356,991











    29
    
    



Amortization
expense for patents and trademarks for the years ended December 31, 2016, and 2015 were $930,941 and $734,496, respectively. The
estimated aggregate amortization expense for each of the next five succeeding years, calculated on a similar basis, is as follows:
2017 - $953,038; 2018 - $932,247; 2019 - $881,785; 2020 - $877,164; and 2021 - $875,339. 





5.Other
Accrued Liabilities  





Other current
and long-term accrued liabilities consisted of:







    
    December 31,

    
    2016
    2015

    Customer rebates
    $2,789,003
    $3,168,756

    Remediation liability
    57,197
    80,947

    Pension liability
    205,071
    359,216

    Other
    2,619,819
    2,052,074

    
    $5,671,090
    $5,660,993








6. Pension and Profit Sharing



United States employees, hired prior to July 1, 1993, are covered
by a funded, defined benefit pension plan. The benefits of this pension plan are based on years of service and the average compensation
of the highest three consecutive years during the last ten years of employment. In December 1995, the Company's Board of Directors
approved an amendment to the United States pension plan that terminated all future benefit accruals as of February 1, 1996, without
terminating the pension plan.



The Companys funding policy with respect to its qualified
plan is to contribute at least the minimum amount required by applicable laws and regulations. In 2016, the Company did not contribute
to the plan.



The plan asset weighted average allocation at December 31, 2016
and December 31, 2015, by asset category, were as follows:







    Asset Category
    2016
    2015

    Equity Securities
    65%
    58%

    Fixed Income Securities
    32%
    37%

    Other Securities / Investments
    3%
    5%

    Total
    100%
    100%









The Companys investment policy for the
pension plan is to minimize risk by balancing investments between equity securities and fixed income securities. Plan funds are
invested in long-term obligations with a history of moderate to low risk.



As of December 31, 2015, equity securities
in the pension plan included 10,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock, having a market value of $174,000. As of December 31,
2016, the plan did not hold shares of the Company.



The pension plan asset information included
below is presented at fair value. ASC 820 establishes a framework for measuring fair value and requires disclosures about assets
and liabilities measured at fair value. The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure
fair value into three levels as follows:




Level 1  Inputs to the valuation methodology based on unadjusted quoted market prices in
active markets that are accessible at the measurement date.


Level 2  Inputs to the valuation methodology that include quoted market prices that are
not considered to be active or financial instruments for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly.


Level 3  Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair
value measurement.




    30
    
    



The following tables present the pension plan
assets by level within the fair value hierarchy as of December 31, 2016 and 2015:







    2016
    Level 1
    Level 2
    Level 3
    Total

    Money Market Fund
    $19,327
    $19,897
    $
    $39,224

    Acme United Common Stock
    
    
    
    

    Equity Common and Collected Funds
    131,737
    705,523
    
    837,260

    Fixed Income Common and Collected Funds
    104,491
    313,752
    
    418,243

    Total
    $255,555
    $1,039,172
    $
    $1,294,727












    2015
    Level 1
    Level 2
    Level 3
    Total

    Money Market Fund
    $66,914
    $
    $
    $66,914

    Acme United Common Stock
    174,000
    
    
    174,000

    Equity Common and Collected Funds
    
    652,135
    
    652,135

    Fixed Income Common and Collected Funds
    
    524,523
    
    524,523

    Total
    $240,914
    $1,176,658
    $
    $1,417,572














Other disclosures related to the pension plan follow:







    
    2016
    2015

    Assumptions used to determine benefit obligation:
    
    

    Discount rate
    3.40%
    3.50%

    Changes in benefit obligation:
    
    

    Benefit obligation at beginning of year
    $(1,776,788)
    $(1,904,377)

    Interest cost
    (55,811)
    (59,348)

    Service cost
    (36,000)
    (25,000)

    Actuarial gain (loss)
    99,019
    (62,677)

    Benefits and plan expenses paid
    269,782
    274,614

    Benefit obligation at end of year
    (1,499,798)
    (1,776,788)

    
    
    

    Changes in plan assets:
    
    

    Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
    1,417,572
    1,684,535

    Actual return on plan assets
    146,937
    (22,349)

    Employer contribution
    
    30,000

    Benefits and plan expenses paid
    (269,782)
    (274,614)

    Fair value of plan assets at end of year
    1,294,727
    1,417,572

    Funded status
    $(205,071)
    $(359,216)

    
    
    

    Amounts recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income:
    
    

    Net actuarial loss
    $1,128,647
    $1,423,319

    Prior service cost
    2,168
    2,711

    Total
    $1,130,815
    $1,426,030
















    31
    
    







Accrued benefits costs are included in other accrued liabilities (non-current).







    
    2016
    2015

    Assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost:
    
    

    Discount rate
    3.50%
    3.23%

    Expected return on plan assets
    6.00%
    6.00%

    Components of net benefit expense:
    
    

    Interest cost
    $55,811
    $59,348

    Service cost
    36,000
    25,000

    Expected return on plan assets
    (76,138)
    (92,620)

    Amortization of prior service costs
    543
    9,155

    Amortization of actuarial loss
    124,854
    122,352

    Net periodic benefit cost
    $141,070
    $123,235













The Company employs a building block approach in determining the
long-term rate of return for plan assets. Historical markets are studied and long-term historical relationships between equity
securities and fixed income securities are preserved consistent with the widely-accepted capital market principle that assets with
higher volatility generate higher returns over the long run.  Our expected 6% long-term rate of return on plan assets is
determined based on long-term historical performance of plan assets, current asset allocation and projected long-term rates of
return.



The following table discloses the change recorded
in other comprehensive income related to benefit costs:







    
    2016
    2015

    
    
    

    Balance at beginning of the year
    $1,426,030
    $1,379,890

    Change in net loss
    (169,818)
    177,647

    Amortization of actuarial loss
    (124,854)
    (122,352)

    Amortization of prior service cost
    (543)
    (9,155)

    Change recognized in other comprehensive income
    (295,215)
    46,140

    Total recognized in other comprehensive income
    $1,130,815
    $1,426,030












The Company anticipates that in 2017, net periodic
benefit cost will include approximately $106,000 of net actuarial loss and $1,000 of prior service cost.





The following benefits are expected to be paid:







    2017
    $207,000

    2018
    187,000

    2019
    169,000

    2020
    152,000

    2021
    136,000

    Years 2022 - 2026
    488,000










The Company also has a qualified, profit sharing
plan covering substantially all of its United States employees. Annual Company contributions to this profit sharing plan are determined
by the Companys Compensation Committee. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company contributed 50% of employees
contributions, up to the first 6% contributed by each employee. Total contribution expense under this profit sharing plan was $188,518
in 2016 and $166,050 in 2015.






    32
    
    



7.Income Taxes



The amounts of income tax expense (benefit) reflected in operations is as follows:







    
    2016
    2015

    Current:
    
    

    Federal
    $566,361
    $1,304,253

    State
    (5,648)
    164,913

    Foreign
    984,469
    553,259

    
    1,545,182
    2,022,425

    
    
    

    Deferred:
    
    

    Federal
    83,290
    (196,476)

    State
    17,233
    (5,077)

    
    100,523
    (201,553)

    
    $1,645,705
    $1,820,872










The current state tax provision was comprised
of taxes on income, the minimum capital tax and other franchise taxes related to the jurisdictions in which the Company's facilities
are located.



A summary of United States and foreign income
before income taxes follows:







    
    2016
    2015

    United States
    $2,008,065
    $3,256,251

    Foreign
    5,488,638
    3,358,146

    
    $7,496,703
    $6,614,397










As discussed in Note 10 below, for segment
reporting, Direct Import sales are included in the United States segment. However, the revenues are earned by our Hong Kong subsidiary
and related income taxes are paid in Hong Kong whose rate approximates 16.5%. As such, income of the Asian subsidiary is included
in the foreign income before taxes.




    33
    
    



The following
schedule reconciles the amounts of income taxes computed at the United States statutory rates to the actual
amountsreported in operations:









    
    2016
    2015

    Federal income
    
    

    taxes at
    
    

    34% statutory rate
    $2,496,270
    $1,878,464

    State and local
    
    

    taxes, net of
    
    

    federal income
    
    

    tax effect
    18,998
    105,492

    Permanent items
    (25,077)
    328,075

    Foreign tax rate difference
    (919,038)
    (601,269)

    Change in deferred income tax
    
    

    valuation allowance
    74,552
    110,110

    
    
    

    Provision for income taxes
    $1,645,705
    $1,820,872












The following summarizes deferred income tax
assets and liabilities:







    
    2016
    2015

    Deferred income tax liabilities:
    
    

    Plant, property
    
    

    and equipment
    $604,271
    $536,759

    
    604,271
    536,759

    
    
    

    Deferred income tax assets:
    
    

    Asset valuations
    720,189
    677,994

    Operating loss
    
    

    carryforwards and credits
    121,658
    110,110

    Pension
    227,681
    189,920

    Foreign tax credit
    186,504
    186,504

    Other
    593,140
    753,219

    
    1,849,172
    1,917,747

    Net deferred
    
    

    income tax asset before valuation allowance
    1,244,901
    1,380,988

    Valuation
    
    

    allowance
    (74,552)
    (110,110)

    Net deferred
    
    

    income tax asset
    $1,170,349
    $1,270,878












In 2016, the Company evaluated its tax positions for years which
remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions, in accordance with the requirements of ASC 740 and as a result concluded
no adjustment was necessary. The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and various state and foreign
jurisdictions. The Companys evaluation of uncertain tax positions was performed for the tax years ended December 31, 2013
and forward, the tax years which remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions as of December 31, 2016.





    34
    
    




In accordance with the Companys accounting policies, any
interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recognized as a component of income tax expense.



The Company provides deferred income taxes on foreign subsidiary
earnings, which are not considered permanently reinvested. Earnings permanently reinvested would become taxable upon the sale or
liquidation of a foreign subsidiary or upon the remittance of dividends. The Company plans to repatriate future earnings of its
Canadian subsidiary and will provide for U.S. income taxes accordingly. Foreign subsidiary earnings of $7,158,497 and $3,157,020
are considered permanently reinvested as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and no deferred income taxes have been provided
on these foreign earnings. These unremitted foreign earnings are primarily related to the Hong Kong subsidiary, and there is no
unrecognized deferred income tax liability for these permanently reinvested earnings.



Due to the uncertain nature of the realization of the Company's
deferred income tax assets based on past performance of its German subsidiary and carry forward expiration dates, the Company has
recorded a valuation allowance for the amount of deferred income tax assets which are not expected to be realized. This valuation
allowance, all of which is related to deferred tax assets resulting from net operating losses of the Companys German subsidiary,
is subject to periodic review, and, if the allowance is reduced, the tax benefit will be recorded in future operations as a reduction
of the Company's tax expense.



8. Long-Term Debt



On May 6, 2016, the Company amended its revolving credit loan agreement
with HSBC Bank, N.A. The amended facility provides for borrowings of up to an aggregate of $50 million at an interest rate of LIBOR
plus 2.0%. In addition, the Company must pay a facility fee, payable quarterly, in an amount equal to two tenths of one percent
(.20%) per annum of the average daily unused portion of the revolving credit line. All principal amounts outstanding under the
agreement are required to be repaid in a single amount on May 6, 2019, the date the agreement expires; interest is payable monthly.
Funds borrowed under the agreement may be used for working capital, acquisitions, general operating expenses, share repurchases
and certain other purposes. Under the revolving loan agreement, the Company is required to maintain specific amounts of tangible
net worth, a specified debt to net worth ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio and must have annual net income greater than $0,
measured as of the end of each fiscal year. At December 31, 2016, the Company was in compliance with the covenants then in effect
under its loan agreement.



Long term debt consists
of borrowings under the Companys revolving loan agreement with HSBC Bank, N.A. As of December 31, 2016, $32,935,858
was outstanding and $17,064,142 was available for borrowing under the Companys revolving loan agreement. 



9. Commitments and Contingencies



The Company leases certain office, manufacturing
and warehouse facilities and various equipment under non-cancelable operating leases. Total rent expense was $1,227,341 and $1,350,617
in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Minimum annual rental commitments under non-cancelable leases with remaining terms of one year
or more as of December 31, 2016 are as follows: 2017 - $1,207,410; 2018 - $1,088,244; 2019 - $918,549; 2020 - $873,644; 2021 
$437,668 and thereafter - $0.



There are no pending material legal proceedings
to which the Company is a party or, to the actual knowledge of the Company, contemplated by any governmental authority.




    35
    
    



10. Segment Information



The Company reports financial information based on the organizational
structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance. The Companys reportable
business segments include (1) United States; (2) Canada and (3) Europe. The financial results for the Companys Asian operations
have been aggregated with the results of its United States operations to form one reportable segment called the United States
segment. Sales in the United States segment include both domestic sales as well as direct import sales. Each reportable
segment derives its revenue from the sales of cutting devices, measuring instruments and first aid products for school, home, office,
hardware, sporting goods and industrial use.



Domestic sales orders are filled from the Companys distribution
centers in North Carolina, Washington and Massachusetts. The Company is responsible for the costs of shipping, insurance, customs
clearance, duties, storage and distribution related to such products. Orders filled from the Companys inventory are generally
for less than container-sized lots.



Direct Import sales are products sold by the Companys Asian
subsidiary, directly to major U.S. retailers who take ownership of the products in Asia. These sales are completed by delivering
product to the customers common carriers at the shipping points in Asia. Direct Import sales are made in larger quantities
than domestic sales, typically full containers. Direct Import sales represented approximately 17% and 18% of the Companys
total net sales in 2016 and 2015, respectively.



The Chief Operating Decision Maker evaluates the performance of
each operating segment based on segment revenues and operating income. Segment revenues are defined as total revenues, including
both external customer revenue and inter-segment revenue. Segment operating earnings are defined as segment revenues, less cost
of goods sold and operating expenses. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segments
operations. Inter-segment amounts are eliminated to arrive at consolidated financial results.



The following table sets forth certain financial
data by segment for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015:





Financial
data by segment:







    Year Ended December 31, 2016
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    

    (000's omitted)
    United States
    Canada
    Europe
    Consolidated

    Net sales
    $110,793
    $6,824
    $6,957
    $124,574

    
    
    
    
    

    Operating income
    7,769
    568
    105
    8,442

    Assets
    84,104
    3,882
    4,080
    92,066

    Additions to property, plant and equipment
    1,737
    7
    44
    1,789

    Depreciation and amortization
    2,362
    8
    23
    2,393

    
    
    
    
    

    Year Ended December 31, 2015
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    

    Net sales
    $96,622
    $6,804
    $6,385
    $109,812

    
    
    
    
    

    Operating income
    7,147
    56
    144
    7,347

    Assets
    73,688
    3,709
    4,024
    81,421

    Additions to property, plant and equipment
    1,720
    19
    17
    1,757

    Depreciation and amortization
    2,017
    8
    28
    2,053












The following is a reconciliation of segment
operating income to consolidated income before taxes:









    
    2016
    2015

    Total operating income
    $8,442
    $7,347

    Interest expense, net
    869
    565

    Other expense, net
    77
    167

    Consolidated income before taxes
    $7,497
    $6,614

    
    
    

    Net Income
    $5,851
    $4,794











    36
    
    



The
table below presents revenue by geographic area. Revenues are attributed to countries based on location of the customer.







    Revenues
    2016
    2015

    United States
    $109,823
    $95,652

    International:
    
    

    Canada
    6,824
    6,804

    Europe
    6,957
    6,385

    Other
    970
    971

    Total International
    $14,751
    $14,160

    
    
    

    Total Revenues
    $124,574
    $109,812










11. Stock Option Plans



The Company grants stock options under the 2012 Employee Stock Option
Plan (the 2012 Employee Plan). The Company also has two plans under which the Company no longer grants options but
under which certain options remain outstanding: the 2002 Employee stock Option Plan and the 2005 Non-Salaried Director Stock Option
Plan (the 2005 Director Plan). 



The 2012 Employee Plan, which became effective
April 23, 2012, provides for the issuance of incentive and nonqualified stock options at an exercise price equal to the fair market
value of the Common Stock on the date the option is granted. The terms of the options granted are subject to the provisions of
the 2012 Employee Plan. Options granted under the 2012 Employee Plan vest 25% one day after the first anniversary of the grant
date and 25% one day after each of the next three anniversaries. As of December 31, 2016, the number of shares available for grant
under the 2012 Employee Plan was 66,850. Under the terms of the Employee Plan, no option may be granted under that plan after the
tenth anniversary of the adoption of the plan. Options outstanding under the Companys 2002 Employee Stock Option Plan have
the same vesting schedule as the 2012 Employee Plan.



The 2005 Director Plan, as amended, provided for
the issuance of stock options for up to a total of 180,000 shares of the Company's common stock to non-salaried directors. Under
the Director Plan, Directors elected on April 25, 2005 and at subsequent Annual Meetings who have not received any prior grant
under this or previous plans received an initial grant of an option to purchase 5,000 shares of Common Stock (the Initial
Option). Each year, each elected Director not receiving an Initial Option received a 5,000 share option (the Annual
Option). The Initial Option vests 25% on the date of grant and 25% on the anniversary of the grant date in each of the following
3 years. Each Annual Option becomes fully exercisable one day after the date of grant. The exercise price of each option granted
equals the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the option is granted, and expires ten (10) years from the date of
grant. As provided in the Director Plan, no options may be granted under the Director Plan after the tenth anniversary of the adoption
of the Plan, i.e., after April 25, 2015.





The Company has amended certain of its stock option plans for
both employees and directors to permit options to be exercised on a net basis and receive either cash or shares of the
Companys Common Stock. Specifically, optionees may, at the time of exercise of an option and subject to the consent of
the Company, elect either (i) to receive from the Company cash in an amount equal to the number of shares of Common Stock
subject to the option (or portion thereof) that is being exercised multiplied by the excess of (a) the fair market value per
share over (b) the exercise price per share of the option ( a net cash settlement); or (ii) to make payment of
the exercise price of the option by reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable upon exercise of
such option by the number of shares having an aggregate fair market value equal to the total exercise price of the option (or
portion thereof). In 2016, the Company paid a total of approximately $2,274,000 to optionees who had elected a net cash
settlement of their respective options.







A summary of changes in options issued under the Companys
stock option plans follows:






    37
    
    







    
    2016
    2015

    
    
    

    Options outstandingat the
    
    

    beginning of the year
    1,267,802
    1,357,813

    Options granted
    171,000
    47,000

    Options forfeited
    (33,825)
    (39,375)

    Options exercised
    (316,699)
    (97,636)

    Options outstanding at
    
    

    the end of the year
    1,088,278
    1,267,802

    Options exercisable at the
    
    

    end of the year
    769,403
    970,017

    Common stock available for future grants
    at the end of the year
    66,850
    201,350

    Weighted average exercise price per share:
    
    

    Granted
    $21.41
    $18.90

    Forfeited
    15.03
    15.65

    Exercised
    10.99
    12.79

    Outstanding
    14.18
    12.46

    Exercisable
    12.29
    11.72












A summary of options outstanding at December 31, 2016 is as follows:







    
    
    Options Outstanding
    
    Options Exercisable

    Range
    of Exercise Prices
    Number
    Outstanding
    Weighted-
Average
    Remaining Contractual 
Life (Years)
    Weighted-
Average
    Exercise
 Price
    
    Number
    Exercisable
    Weighted-
Average
    Exercise 
Price

    $7.30 to $10.10
    214,038
    4
    $9.49
    
    214,038
    $9.49

    $10.11 to $12.14
    221,865
    5
    10.85
    
    212,490
    10.80

    $12.15 to $14.68
    218,000
    5
    13.49
    
    182,000
    13.44

    $14.69 to $16.98
    216,375
    6
    16.35
    
    134,125
    16.20

    $16.99 to $21.49
    218,000
    9
    20.84
    
    26,750
    19.09

    
    1,088,278
    
    
    
    769,403
    














The weighted average remaining contractual
life of all outstanding stock options is 6 years.



Stock Based Compensation

Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based
on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period.
The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of employee and non-employee director stock
options. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payment awards on the date of grant, using an option-pricing model,
is affected by the Companys stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These
assumptions include estimating the length of time employees will retain their vested stock options before exercising them (expected
term), the estimated volatility of the Companys Common Stock price over the expected term (volatility)
and the number of options that will not fully vest in accordance with applicable vesting requirements (forfeitures).






    38
    
    



The Company estimates the expected term of options granted by evaluating
various factors, including the vesting period, historical employee information, as well as current and historical stock prices
and market conditions. The Company estimates the volatility of its common stock by calculating historical volatility based on the
closing stock price on the last day of each of the 60 months leading up to the month the option was granted. The risk-free interest
rate that the Company uses in the option valuation model is the interest rate on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bond issues with remaining
terms similar to the expected term of the options granted. Historical information was the basis for calculating the dividend yield.
The Company is required to estimate forfeitures at the time of grant and to revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual
forfeitures differ from those estimates. The Company used a mix of historical data and future assumptions to estimate pre-vesting
option forfeitures and to record stock-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. All stock-based
payment awards are amortized over the requisite service periods of the awards, which are generally the vesting periods.



The assumptions used to value option grants for the twelve months
ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows:



    
    

    
    2016
    2015

    Expected life in years
    5
    5

    Interest rate
    1.07  1.24%
    1.33  1.62%

    Volatility
    .236-.258
    .234-.252

    Dividend yield
    1.6% - 2.0%
    1.95% - 2.10%




Total stock-based compensation recognized in the Companys
consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $440,536 and $513,986, respectively. At
December 31, 2016, there was approximately $867,624 of unrecognized compensation cost, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, related
to non-vested stock-based payments granted to the Companys employees. As of December 31, 2016, the remaining unamortized
expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3 years.



The weighted average fair value at the date
of grant for options granted during 2016 and 2015 was $4.05 and $3.44 per option, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value of
outstanding options was $12,395,486 at December 31, 2016. The aggregate intrinsic value of exercisable options was $10,271,617
at December 31, 2016. The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised during 2016 was $4,633,306.





12. Earnings Per Share



The calculation of earnings per share follows:







    
    2016
    2015

    Numerator:
    
    

    Net income
    $5,850,998
    $4,793,525

    Denominator:
    
    

    Denominator for basic earnings per share:
    
    

    Weighted average shares outstanding
    3,327,867
    3,334,790

    Effect of dilutive employee stock options
    249,956
    352,546

    Denominator for dilutive earnings per share
    3,577,823
    3,687,336

    Basic earnings per share
    $1.76
    $1.44

    Dilutive earnings per share
    $1.64
    $1.30










For 2016 and 2015, respectively, 203,000 and
47,000 stock options were excluded from diluted earnings per share calculations because they would have been anti-dilutive.






    39
    
    





13.Accumulated Other Comprehensive (loss) income



The components of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income follow:







    
    Foreign currency translation adjustment
    Net prior service credit and actuarial losses
    Total

    Balances, December 31, 2014
    $(751,765)
    $(895,332)
    $(1,647,098)

    Change in net prior service credit
    
    
    

    and actuarial losses, net of tax
    
    (52,825)
    (52,825)

    Translation adjustment
    (830,867)
    
    (830,867)

    Balances, December 31, 2015
    $(1,582,632)
    $(948,157)
    $(2,530,790)

    Change in net prior service credit
    
    
    

    and actuarial losses, net of tax
    
    284,145
    284,145

    Translation adjustment
    (89,556)
    
    (89,556)

    Balances, December 31, 2016
    $(1,672,188)
    $(664,012)
    $(2,336,201)








14. Financial Instruments



The carrying value of the Companys bank debt is a reasonable
estimate of fair value because of the nature of its payment terms and maturity.



15. Quarterly Data (unaudited)







    Quarters (000's omitted, except per share data)
    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    

    2016
    First
    Second
    Third
    Fourth
    Total

    Net sales
    $25,288
    $40,997
    $31,913
    $26,377
    $124,574

    Cost of goods sold
    16,103
    26,302
    20,050
    16,564
    79,019

    Net income
    565
    3,267
    1,473
    545
    5,851

    Basic earnings per share
    $0.17
    $0.98
    $0.44
    $0.16
    $1.76

    Diluted earnings per share
    $0.16
    $0.91
    $0.40
    $0.15
    $1.64

    Dividends per share
    $0.10
    $0.10
    $0.10
    $0.10
    $0.40

    
    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    

    2015
    First
    Second
    Third
    Fourth
    Total

    Net sales
    $22,837
    $33,954
    $29,903
    $23,118
    $109,812

    Cost of goods sold
    14,402
    21,419
    19,578
    14,852
    70,251

    Net income
    436
    2,710
    1,208
    440
    4,794

    Basic earnings per share
    $0.13
    $0.82
    $0.36
    $0.12
    $1.44

    Diluted earnings per share
    $0.12
    $0.74
    $0.33
    $0.11
    $1.30

    Dividends per share
    $0.09
    $0.09
    $0.09
    $0.10
    $0.37










Earnings per share were computed independently
for each of the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum of the four quarterly earnings per share amounts may not necessarily equal
the earnings per share for the year.




    40
    
    



16. Sale of Property



On April 7, 2014, the Company sold its Fremont,
NC distribution facility for $850,000 in cash. The facility originally served as a manufacturing site for the Companys scissors
and rulers. The Company hired an independent environmental consulting firm to conduct environmental studies in order to identify
the extent of the environmental contamination on the property and to develop a remediation plan. As a result of those studies and
the estimates prepared by the independent environmental consulting firm, and in conjunction with the sale of the property, the
Company recorded a liability of $300,000 in the second quarter of 2014, related to the remediation of the property. The accrual
includes the total estimated costs of remedial activities and post-remediation operating and maintenance costs.



Remediation work on the Fremont project began
in the third quarter of 2014 and was completed in 2015. In addition to the remediation work, the Company, with the assistance of
its independent environmental consulting firm, must continue to monitor contaminant levels on the property to ensure they comply
with set governmental standards. The Company expects that the monitoring period will last a period of five years from the completion
of the remediation and be complete by the end of 2020.





The change in the accrual for environmental
remediation, which is included in other accrued liabilities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, for the twelve months
ended December 31, 2016 follows (in thousands):









    
    Balance
    at 
    December 31, 2015
    
    Payments
    Balance
    at 
    December 31, 2016

    Fremont, NC
    $80
    $(23)
    $57
    

    Total
    $80
    $(23)
    $57
    











17. Business Combinations



On February 1, 2016, the Company acquired the
assets of Vogel Capital, Inc., d/b/a Diamond Machining Technology (DMT) for $7.0 million in cash. DMT
products are leaders in sharpening tools for knives, scissors, chisels, and other cutting tools. The DMT products use finely dispersed
diamonds on the surfaces of sharpeners. The acquired assets include over 50 patents and trademarks. 



The purchase price was allocated to assets acquired
and liabilities assumed as follows (in thousands):





















    Assets:
    

    Accounts
    Receivable
    $1,145

    Inventory
    280

    Equipment
    262

    Prepaid
    expenses
    176

    Intangible Assets
    5,481

    Total
    assets
    $7,344







    Liabilities
    

    Accounts
    Payable
    $192

    Accrued
    Expense
    181

    Total
    liabilities
    $373









Net sales from the date of acquisition through
December 31, 2016 attributable to DMT products were approximately $5.6 million. Net income from the date of acquisition through
December 31, 2016 attributable to DMT products was approximately $800,000.



Assuming DMT was acquired on January 1, 2016,
unaudited proforma combined net sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 for the Company would have been approximately
$125.2 million. Unaudited proforma combined net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 for the Company would have
been approximately $5.9 million.






    41
    
    



Assuming DMT was acquired on January 1, 2015,
unaudited proforma combined net sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, for the Company would have been approximately
$115.3 million. Unaudited proforma combined net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 for the Company would have
been approximately $5.3 million.



18. Subsequent Event



On February 1, 2017 the Company announced that
it had acquired assets of Spill Magic, Inc., for $7.2 million in cash. The Spill Magic products are
leaders in absorbents that encapsulate spills into dry powders that can be safely disposed. Many large retail chains use its products
to remove liquids from broken glass containers, oil and gas spills, bodily fluids, and solvents. Its easy-to-use and environmentally
friendly products permanently absorb the spills, leaving the floors underneath dry and reducing injuries from falls. Spill Magic
also sells spill clean-up kits and blood borne pathogen kits for the safety market. 



The acquired assets include inventory,
accounts receivable and fixed assets. Spill Magic is located in Santa Ana, California and Smyrna, Tennessee, and began operations
in 1995. The company employed 22 people all of whom the Company retained.






    42
    
    



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM







To the Audit Committee of the

Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Acme United Corporation





We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Acme United Corporation and Subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders equity, and cash flows for
the years then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.



We conducted our audits in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement.
The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an
audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting
as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion
on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.



In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Acme United Corporation and Subsidiaries,
as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.





/s/ Marcum llp



marcum llp

New Haven, Connecticut

March 10, 2017






    43
    
    



Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure



There have been no disagreements with accountants
related to accounting and financial disclosures in 2016.



Item 9A. Controls and Procedures



Evaluation of Internal Controls and Procedures



Under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures as required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation,
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective.



Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting





Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Companys internal control over financial reporting is designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The Companys internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Companys assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.






    44
    
    



Any system of internal control, no matter how well designed, has
inherent limitations, including the possibility that a control can be circumvented or overridden and misstatements due to error
or fraud may occur and not be detected in a timely manner. Also, because of changes in conditions, internal control effectiveness
may vary over time. Accordingly, even an effective system of internal control will provide only reasonable assurance with respect
to financial statement preparation.



Management assessed the effectiveness of the Companys internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth in
2013 by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in "Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on managements assessment using the COSO criteria, management has concluded that the Company's internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2016.



This annual report does not include an attestation report of the
Companys registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Managements report
was not subject to attestation by the Companys registered public accounting firm pursuant to the rules of the Securities
and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to provide only managements report in this Annual Report.



Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting



During the quarter ended December 31, 2016, there were no changes
in the Companys internal control over financial reporting that materially affected, or was reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



Item 9B. Other Information



None.







PART III



Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and
Corporate Governance



The following table sets forth certain information
with respect to the directors and executive officers of the Company. All directors of the Company hold office until the next annual
meeting of the shareholders or until their successors have been elected and qualified. Executive officers are elected by the Board
of Directors to hold office until their successors are elected and qualified.





    Name
    Age
    Position Held with Company

    
    
    

    Walter C. Johnsen
    66
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

    Brian S. Olschan
    60
    President, Chief Operating Officer and Director

    Paul G. Driscoll
    56
    Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer

    Rex L. Davidson
    67
    Director

    Richmond Y. Holden, Jr.
    63
    Director

    Susan H. Murphy
    65
    Director

    Stevenson E. Ward III
    71
    Director



Walter C. Johnsen has served as Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company since January 1, 2007; President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company from November
30, 1995 to December 31, 2006. Mr. Johnsen previously served as Vice Chairman and a principal of Marshall Products, Inc., a medical
supply distributor. Mr. Johnsen has served on the Board of TOMI Environmental Solutions, Inc., a publicly traded company, since
February 1, 2016. Mr. Johnsens qualifications to serve on the Board include the in-depth knowledge of all facets of the
Companys business which he has gained during his more than fifteen years of service as the Companys Chief Executive
Officer.






    45
    
    



Brian S. Olschan has served as President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Company since January 1, 2007; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from January
25, 1999 to December 31, 2006; Senior Vice President - Sales and Marketing of the Company from September 12, 1996 to January 24,
1999; Mr. Olschan previously served as Vice President and General Manager of the Cordset and Assembly Business of General Cable
Corporation, an electrical wire and cable manufacturer. Mr. Olschans qualifications to serve on the Board include his detailed
knowledge of the Companys operations which he has gained in his capacity as a member of senior management for more than
eleven years, including as Chief Operating Officer since January 1999 and President since January 2007.



Paul G. Driscoll has served as Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer since October 2, 2002. Mr. Driscoll joined Acme as Director of International
Finance on March 19, 2001. From 1997 to 2001, he was employed by Ernest and Julio Gallo Winery, including as Director of Finance
and Operations in Japan. Prior to Gallo he served in several increasingly responsible finance positions in Sterling Drug Inc. in
New York City and Sanofi S.A. in France.



Rex L. Davidson has served as director since 2006. Executive
Director of the Helms Fund since 2013. The Helms Fund provides "gap financing" to socially responsible business
ventures for capital expenditures. Additionally, since 2009, Mr. Davidson has served as President of Rex Davidson Associates, LLC,
a management consulting service, and Executive Director of Las Cumbres Community Services, which provides developmental disabilityand
mental health services to children, adults and families in Northern New Mexico. From 1982 to 2009, he served as President
and Chief Executive Officer of Goodwill Industries of Greater New York and Northern New Jersey, Inc., and President of Goodwill
Industries Housing Corporation. Mr. Davidsons qualifications to serve on the Board include significant management experience
at the highest level, having been responsible for the management of Goodwill Industries, an organization with over 2,000 employees
and revenues in excess of $100 million. Mr. Davidsons experience in the areas of compensation of personnel at all levels,
his experience relating to retail matters, such as retail trends and pricing, and diversity policies are of significant benefit
to the Company.



Richmond Y. Holden, Jr. has served as director since 1998.
Mr. Holden served as President and CEO of . INgageHub, a cloud based Marketing SaaS platform, from January 2015 through early 2016;
he continues to serve as a senior advisor to the company. In 2007, Mr. Holden joined School Specialty, Inc., a distributor of school
supplies, equipment and curriculum products. He last served as Executive Vice President of School Specialty, Inc., and President
of the Curriculum Group, a division of School Specialty Inc., 2013- December 2014. He was President of Educational Resources,
a division of School Specialty, Inc., from 2010 to 2013. He served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of J.L. Hammett Co.,
a reseller of educational, curriculum, equipment, and products from 1992 to 2006. Commencing in 2007, Mr. Holden served on the
Board of Directors of Software Secure, Incorporated, a privately-held company headquartered in Newton, MA, which focused on secure
online educational testing technology, until its sale in late 2016. He has served on the Board of Directors of Codman Academy Charter
Public School in Boston MA since 2012. The qualifications of Mr. Holden to serve on the Board of the Company include his substantial
senior executive management experience of large complex companies in the educational markets. In particular, as a result of his
experience with School Specialty Inc., then a $650 million publicly held reseller of educational products, Mr. Holden has broad
knowledge of educational markets and operational matters relating to developmental strategy, finance, marketing, sales, technology,
sourcing, pricing and distribution.



Susan H. Murphy has served as director
since 2003. Vice President Emerita, Cornell University, from which Dr. Murphy retired in 2016 after a 38-year career, commencing
in 1978. She served as Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid from 1985 to 1994; Vice President of Student and Academic Services
from 1994 to June 2015, and thereafter she worked in Alumni Affairs and Development until her retirement. In 2013, Dr. Murphy became
a member of the Board of Trustees of Adelphi University, and, since July 2016, has served as Vice Chair of its Board of Trustees.
She also serves on the Board of Directors for Kendal at Ithaca, a not-for-profit continuing care retirement community (since April
2014); Tompkins County Community Foundation (since January 2015); and Lets Get Ready, an organization which provides low-income
high school students with support services to help them gain admission to and graduate from college (since September 2016). Dr.
Murphy received a Ph.D. in Educational Administration from Cornell University. Dr. Murphy has broad senior management level experience
in a large, complex organization. In particular, her experience in employee compensation matters and the development
and implementation of diversity policies is helpful to the Company.






    46
    
    



Stevenson E. Ward III has served as director since 2001.
Mr. Ward served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Triton Thalassic Technologies, Inc. from 2000 until his retirement
in 2014. Tritons technology controls and inactivates pathogens in the healthcare and industrial industries. From 1998 through
2000, Mr. Ward served as Senior Vice President-Administration of Sanofi-Synthelabo, Inc., a major multinational pharmaceutical
company. He served as Executive Vice President (1996-1998), responsible for legal, tax, treasury, employee benefits and other functions,
and Chief Financial Officer (1994-1996) of Sanofi, Inc., the North American holding company for Sanofi. He also served as Vice
President-Finance and Administration, Pharmaceutical Group, Sterling Winthrop, Inc. (1992-1994). Prior to joining Sterling, he
was employed by General Electric Company in management positions in Purchasing, Corporate Audit and Finance. Mr. Wards qualifications
for service on the Board include his extensive experience in senior executive level positions in finance, corporate audit and administration
at two Fortune 100 multinational corporations. He also holds a Masters in Business Administration (MBA) degree.



Code of Conduct



The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct that is applicable to
its employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. The Code of Conduct is available
in the investor relations section on the Companys website at www.acmeunited.com



If the Company makes any substantive amendments to the Code of Conduct
which apply to its Chief Executive Officer,Chief Financial Officer or Controller, or grants any waiver, including any implicit
waiver, from a provision of the Code of Conduct to the Companys executive officers, the Company will disclose the nature
of the amendment or waiver on its website.



Information regarding compliance with Section
16(a) beneficial ownership reporting requirements and certain corporate governance matters is incorporated herein by reference
to the sections entitled (i) Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (ii) Nominations
for Directors, and (iii) Audit Committee contained in the Companys Proxy Statement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with its 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



Item 11. Executive Compensation



Information with respect to executive compensation
is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled Executive Compensation contained in the Companys
Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC in connection with the Companys 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management



Information regarding security ownership of
certain beneficial owners, directors and executive officers is incorporated herein by reference to the information in the section
entitled Security Ownership of Directors and Officers contained in the Companys Proxy Statement to be filed
with the SEC in connection with its 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, and Director Independence



Information regarding certain relationships
and related transactions is incorporated herein by reference to the information in the section entitled Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions contained in the Companys Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC in connection with its
2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



Information regarding director independence
is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled Independence Determinations contained in the Companys
Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the Companys 2017 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders.



Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees
and Services



Information regarding principal accountant
fees and services is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled Fees to Auditors contained in the Companys
Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC in connection with its 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.




    47
    
    



PART IV



Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules

(a)(1) Financial Statements.


Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Operations 


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

(a)(2) Financial
Statement Schedules


Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted because
of the absence of conditions under which they are required or because the required information is presented in the Financial Statements
or Notes thereto.



(a)(3) The exhibits listed under
Item 15(b) are filed or incorporated by reference herein.

(b) Exhibits.

The exhibits listed below are filed
as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain of the exhibits, as indicated, have been previously filed and are incorporated
herein by reference.



    Exhibit No.
    Identification of Exhibit

    2
    Asset Purchase Agreement with First Aid Only, Inc. dated as of June 2, 2014(1)

    3(i)
    Certificate of Organization of the Company (2)

    
    Amendment to Certificate of Organization of Registrant dated September 24, 1968 (2) 

    
    Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated April 27, 1971 (3)

    
    Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated June 29, 1971 (3)

    3(ii)
    Bylaws (11)

    4
    Specimen of Common Stock certificate (3)

    10.1
    Non-Salaried Director Stock Option Plan dated April 22, 1996* (4)

    10.1(a)
    Amendment No. 1 to the Non-Salaried Director Stock Option Plan *(5)

    10.1(b)
    Amendment No. 2 to the Non-Salaried Director Stock Option Plan *(6)

    10.3
    2002 Acme United Employee Stock Option Plan as amended (12)







    48
    
    





    10.4
    Severance Pay Plan dated September 28, 2004* (15)

    10.5(a)
    Salary Continuation Plan dated September 28, 2004, as amended (14)*

    10.6
    2005
    Non-Salaried Director Stock Option Plan, amended (13)

    10.8
    Deferred Compensation Plan dated October 2, 2007* (16)

    10.9
    2012 Acme United Employee Stock Option Plan (17) 

    10.10(a)
    Revolving Loan Agreement with HSBC, dated April 5, 2012(18)

    10.10(b)
    Amendment No. 1 to Revolving Loan Agreement with HSBC Dated(19)


    10.10(c)
    Amended and restated note

    10.10(d)
    Amendment No. 2 to Revolving Loan Agreement with HSBC dated October 2013





    10.11
    Change in Control Plan as amended dated February 24, 2011* (20)

    21
    Subsidiaries of the Registrant

    23.1
    Consent of MARCUM LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

    31.1
    Certification of Walter Johnsen pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) and Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

    31.2
    Certification of Paul Driscoll pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) and Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

    32.1
    Certification of Walter Johnsen pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

    32.2
    Certification of Paul Driscoll pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002





*Indicates a management
contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement




(1)Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Companys form 8-K/A
filed on August 19, 2014.





(2)Previously filed in S-1 Registration Statement No. 230682 filed with
the Commission on November 7, 1968 and amended by Amendment No. 1 on December 31, 1968 and by Amendment No. 2 on January 31, 1969.



(3)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-K filed
in 1971.



(4)Previously filed in the Companys Form S-8 Registration Statement
No. 333-26739 filed with the Commission on May 9, 1997.



(5)Previously filed in the Companys Form S-8 Registration Statement
No. 333-84505 filed with the Commission on August 4, 1999.



(6)Previously filed in the Companys Form S-8 Registration Statement
No. 333-70348 filed with the Commission on September 21, 2000. 





    49
    
    




(7)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Proxy Statement
filed on March 29, 1996.



(8)Previously filed in the Companys Form S-8 Registration Statement
No. 333-26737 filed with the Commission on May 9, 1997. 



(9)Previously filed in the Companys Form S-8 Registration Statement
No. 333-84499 filed with the Commission on August 4, 1999. 



(10)Previously filed in the Companys Form S-8 Registration Statement
No. 333-70346 filed with the Commission on September 27, 2001. 



(11)Previously filed in the Companys form 8-K filed on March 3,
2006.



(12)Previously filed in the Companys Proxy statement for the 2005
Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



(13)Previously filed in the Companys Proxy Statement filed on
March 29, 2005. This plan expired in 2015.



(14)Previously filed in the Companys form 8-K filed on December
21, 2010.



(15)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-K filed
on March 17, 2005.



(16)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-K filed
on March 12, 2008.



(17)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-Q filed
on April 14, 2012.



(18)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-Q filed
on May 10, 2013.



(19)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-k filed
on March 6, 2013.




(20)Previously filed as an exhibit to the Companys Form 10-k filed
on March 11, 2011.



    50
    
    




Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized, on March 10, 2017.



ACME UNITED CORPORATION

(Registrant)








    Signatures
    
    Titles


    
    
    

    /s/ Walter C. Johnsen
    
    


    Walter C. Johnsen
    
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

    
    
    

    /s/ Brian S. Olschan
    
    

    Brian S. Olschan
    
    President, Chief Operating Officer and Director

    
    
    

    /s/ Paul G. Driscoll
    
    

    Paul G. Driscoll
    
    Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer

    
    
    

    /s/ Rex Davidson
    
    

    Rex Davidson
    
    Director

    
    
    

    /s/ Richmond Y. Holden, Jr.
    
    

    Richmond Y. Holden, Jr.
    
    Director

    
    
    

    /s/ Susan H. Murphy
    
    

    Susan H. Murphy
    
    Director


    
    
    

    /s/ Stevenson E. Ward III
    
    

    Stevenson E. Ward III
    
    Director









    51
























