
10-K
1
rwc_10k.htm
ANNUAL REPORT





Blueprint











UNITED
STATES


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION


Washington, D.C. 20549







FORM 10-K






ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934





For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017


OR




TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF1934




For the transition period from __________ to
__________






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION

(Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)









Nevada



001-32644



59-3486297




(State
or other jurisdiction of incorporation or
organization)



(Commission file
number)



(I.R.S.
Employer Identification No.)






7100 Technology Drive


West Melbourne, Florida 32904

(Address
of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)



Registrants telephone number, including area code: (321)
984-1414



Securities registered pursuant to Section12(b) of the
Act:






Title
of Class






Name of
each Exchange on Which Registered




Common
Stock, par value $.60






NYSE
American






Securities registered pursuant to Section12(g) of the
Act:

None

Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
in Rule405 of the Securities Act. Yes
No


Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section13 or Section15(d) of the Act. Yes
No


Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2)has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes No


Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted
on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit and post such files). Yes  No



Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
RegulationS-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrants knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form10-K or any amendment to this Form10-K.



Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting
company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of
large accelerated filer, accelerated
filer, smaller reporting company, and
emerging growth company in Rule12b-2 of the
Exchange Act (Check one):






Large
accelerated filer 



Accelerated filer





Non-accelerated
filer 



Smaller
reporting company 




(Do not
check if a smaller reporting company)



Emerging growth
company 





If an
emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant
has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying
with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 


Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule12b-2 of the Act). Yes
No


The
aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity
held by non-affiliates of the registrant on June30, 2017,
based on the closing price of such stock on the NYSE American on
such date, was $28,567,823. As of February 24, 2018, 13,844,584
shares of the registrants Common Stock were
outstanding.


Documents Incorporated by Reference:
Portions of the registrants definitive proxy statement for
its 2018 annual stockholders meeting are incorporated by
reference in Part III of this report. The registrants
definitive proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the SEC) within 120 days after
December 31, 2017.





















TABLE OF CONTENTS



Page






PART I







1




Item
1.



Business



1




Item
1A.



Risk
Factors



8




Item
1B.



Unresolved
Staff Comments



16




Item
2.



Properties



16




Item
3.



Legal
Proceedings



17




Item
4.



Mine
Safety Disclosures



17





PART II







18




Item
5.



Market
For Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



18




Item
6.



Selected
Financial Data



19




Item
7.



Managements
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations



19




Item
7A.



Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



29




Item
8.



Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data



29




Item
9.



Changes
in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure



30




Item
9A.



Controls
and Procedures



30




Item
9B.



Other
Information



30





Part III







31




Item
10.



Directors,
Executive Officers and Corporate Governance



31




Item
11.



Executive
Compensation



31




Item
12.



Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters



31




Item
13.



Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence



31




Item
14.



Principal
Accounting Fees and Services



31





Part IV







32




Item
15.



Exhibits
and Financial Statement Schedules



32




Item
16.



Form
10-K Summary



33





SIGNATURES







34











i
















PART I


Item
1.Business



General


RELM
Wireless Corporation (RELM, the
Company, we or us)
provides two-way radio communications equipment of high quality and
reliability.


In
business for over 70 years, RELM (NYSE American: RWC) designs,
manufactures and markets wireless communications products
consisting of two-way land mobile radios (LMRs),
repeaters, base stations and related components and subsystems.
Two-way LMRs can be units that are hand-held (portable) or
installed in vehicles (mobile). Repeaters expand the range of
two-way LMRs, enabling them to operate over a wider area. Base
station components and subsystems are installed at radio
transmitter sites to improve performance by enhancing the signal
and reducing or eliminating signal interference and enabling the
use of one antenna for both transmission and reception. We employ
both analog and digital technologies in our products.


Our
digital technology is compliant with the Project 25 standard
(P-25) for digital LMR equipment. The P-25 has been
adopted by representatives from the Association of Public-Safety
Communications Officials-International (APCO), the
National Association of State Technology Directors
(NASTD), the United States (U.S.)
Federal Government and other public safety user organizations. Our
P-25 digital products and our analog products function in the very
high frequency (VHF) (136MHz  174MHz),
ultra-high frequency (UHF) (380MHz  470MHz,
450MHz  520MHz), and 700-800 MHz bands. Our P-25 KNG and
KNG2 Series mobile and portable digital radios have been validated
under the P-25 Compliance Assessment Program (CAP) as
being P-25 compliant and interoperable with the communications
network infrastructure of six of our competitors. Since we do not
provide our own communications network infrastructure, we believe
CAP validation provides confidence for federal, state and local
emergency response agencies that our products are a viable and
attractive alternative for use on the infrastructure of our
competitors.


We
offer products under the brand names BK Technologies, BK Radio and
RELM. Generally, BK Technologies and BK Radio-branded products
serve the government and public safety market, while RELM-branded
products serve the business and industrial market.


BK
Technologies and BK Radio-branded products consist of
high-specification land-mobile radio equipment for professional
radio users primarily in government, public safety and military
applications. These products have more extensive features and
capabilities than those offered in the RELM line. Our P-25 digital
products are marketed under the BK Radio brand, which includes the
next-generation KNG and KNG2 product lines. RELM-branded products
provide basic yet feature-rich and reliable two-way communications
for commercial and industrial concerns, such as hotels,
construction firms, schools and transportation services. Typically,
these users are not radio professionals and require easy, fast and
affordable communication among a defined group of
users.


We
believe that we provide superior value to a wide array of customers
with demanding requirements, including, for example, emergency
response, public safety, homeland security and military customers
of federal and state government agencies, as well as various
commercial enterprises. Our two-way radio products excel in
applications with harsh and hazardous conditions. They provide
high-specification performance, durability and reliability at a
lower cost relative to comparable offerings.


We were
incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada on October 24,
1997. We are the resulting corporation from the reincorporation
merger of our predecessor, Adage, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation,
which reincorporated from Pennsylvania to Nevada effective as of
January 30, 1998. Our principal executive offices are located at
7100 Technology Drive, West Melbourne, Florida 32904 and our
telephone number is (321) 984-1414.





1












Available Information


Our
Internet website address is www.bktechnologies.com. We make
available on our Internet website free of charge our Annual Reports
on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to these reports as soon
as practicable after we file or furnish such material with or to
the SEC. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code
of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers, Audit
Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Nominating and
Governance Committee Charter and other corporate governance
policies are available on our website, under
Investor. The information contained on our website is
not incorporated by reference in this report. A copy of any of
these materials may be obtained, free of charge, upon request from
our investor relations department. All reports that the Company
files with or furnishes to the SEC also are available free of
charge via the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. The
public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at
the SECs Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549, on official business days during the hours
of 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., or by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330.



Significant Events of 2017


In
October 2017, the Company announced that it was named a supplier
under a contract issued by the U.S. Department of the Interior (the
DOI) for the procurement of a range of equipment,
including P-25 digital two-way radios and related equipment, by all
agencies of the DOI. The maximum total value of the contract is $3
billion, with a five-year term commencing October 1, 2017 through
September 30, 2022. The contract names a select group of suppliers
and does not specify or guarantee purchase dates or quantities of
equipment from any particular named supplier.


Additionally in
October 2017, the Company announced that it was awarded a five-year
blanket purchase agreement (USFS BPA) from the U.S.
Department of Agriculture/U.S. Forest Service (USFS).
The term of the USFS BPA commenced on September 22, 2017 and
expires on September 21, 2022, providing for purchases by the USFS
for up to $25 million. The USFS BPA does not specify or guarantee
purchase quantities or delivery dates.


In
September 2017, the Company announced that it was awarded a
five-year blanket purchase agreement (USAF BPA) from
the U.S. Air Force (USAF). The term of the USAF BPA
commenced on September 22, 2017 and expires on September 19, 2022,
providing for purchases by the USAF of up to $5.5 million. The USAF
BPA does not specify or guarantee purchase quantities by the USAF
or delivery dates. The Company immediately received an initial task
order under the USAF BPA totaling approximately $440,000, which was
fulfilled during the fourth quarter of 2017.


In June
2017, the Board of Directors approved the increase in the
Companys capital return program, authorizing the repurchase
of 500,000 shares of the Companys common stock in addition
to the 500,000 shares originally authorized, for a total repurchase
authorization of 1 million shares, pursuant to a stock repurchase
plan in conformity with the provisions of Rule 10b5-1 and Rule
10b-18 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the Exchange Act). The repurchase program
has no termination date. Pursuant to the capital return program,
during 2017, the Companys Board of Directors declared
quarterly dividends on the Companys common stock of $0.09
per share on March 17, and $0.02 per share on June 14, September 18
and December 6. The dividends were payable to shareholders of
record as of March 31, 2017, June 30, 2017, October 2, 2017 and
January 2, 2018, respectively. These dividends were paid on April
17, 2017, July 17, 2017, October 16, 2017 and January 16,
2018.


On June
15, 2017, the Companys shareholders approved the 2017
incentive compensation plan. Under the plan, the Companys
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors granted to each
non-employee director an award of restricted stock units
(RSUs) equal to $20,000 with the number of RSUs
calculated based on the Companys common stock price on the
date of grant. The RSUs vest in full twelve months after the grant
date, subject to continued service as a director through the
vesting date. The shares underlying the RSU awards are not issued
until the RSUs vest in full. Upon vesting, each RSU converts into
one share of the Companys common stock.





2











During
the first quarter of 2017, the Company implemented a number of
leadership changes to senior management and the Board of Directors.
Timothy A. Vitou was promoted to President, replacing David P.
Storey. Mr. Vitou previously served as the Companys Senior
Vice President of Sales and Marketing since May 2008. The
Companys Board was also reconfigured with the appointments
of General E. Gray Payne, Charles T. Lanktree, Ryan R.K. Turner,
John W. Struble and Michael R. Dill, who joined incumbent directors
Lewis M. Johnson and D. Kyle Cerminara on the Companys
board. Mr. Cerminara was appointed Chairman of the Board. Former
directors Donald F.U. Goebert and Timothy W. ONeil resigned
from the Board.



Industry Overview


LMR
communications consist of hand-held (portable) and vehicle mounted
(mobile) two-way radios commonly used by the public safety sector
(e.g., police, fire, and emergency responders), military and
commercial business concerns (e.g., corporate disaster recovery,
hotels, airports, farms, transportation service providers, and
construction firms), and government agencies within the U.S. and
abroad. LMR systems are constructed to meet an organizations
specific communications needs. The cost of a complete system can
vary widely depending on the size and configuration. Likewise, the
cost of radio sets can range from under $100 for a basic analog
portable, to thousands of dollars for a fully featured P-25 digital
unit. Typically, there are no recurring airtime usage charges.
Accordingly, LMR usage patterns are considerably different from
those for cellular and other wireless communications tools. LMR
usage often consists of direct radio-to-radio communications
outside of the range of a communication network with one to many
members of a group. Also, LMR functions with push-to-talk operation
(i.e., no call set-up or dialing a phone number is required). LMR
communications often consist of multiple short (5 second)
transmissions between multiple members of a group. For the public
safety sector, this is known as Mission Critical Voice
(MCV). The average useful life of a unit can vary,
depending upon the application in which the unit is deployed and
its handling.


LMR
systems are the most widely-used and longest-used form of wireless
dispatch communications in the U.S., having been first placed in
service in 1921. LMR was initially used almost exclusively by law
enforcement, and all radio communications were transmitted in an
analog format. Analog transmissions typically consist of a voice or
other signal modulated directly onto a continuous radio carrier
wave. Over time, advances in technology decreased the cost of LMR
products and increased their popularity and usage by businesses and
other agencies. Responding to the growing usage, additional radio
frequency spectrum was allocated by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) for LMR use.


More
recently, growth of the LMR industry has slowed, reflecting several
factors:





LMR is a mature
industry, having been in existence for over 90 years;







some LMR users are
in mature industry segments that have experienced slow growth
rates;







funding and budgets
for government and public safety agencies have been constrained;
and







limited
availability of radio frequency spectrum, which hinders existing
users in expanding their systems and potential new users from
establishing new systems.




Years
ago, as a result of the limited spectrum availability, the FCC
mandated that new LMR equipment utilize technology that is more
spectrum-efficient. This effectively meant that the industry had to
migrate to digital technology. Responding to the mandate, the APCO,
the NASTD, the U.S. Federal Government and the Telecommunications
Industry Association (TIA), in concert with several
LMR manufacturers, including RELM, recommended a standard for
digital LMR devices that would meet the FCC spectrum-efficiency
requirements and provide solutions to several problems experienced
primarily by public safety users. The standard is called P-25. The
primary objectives of P-25 are to: (i) allow effective and reliable
communication among users of compliant equipment, regardless of its
manufacturer, known as interoperability, (ii) maximize radio
spectrum efficiency and (iii) promote competition among LMR
providers through an open system architecture.





3











Although the FCC
does not require public safety agencies or any radio users to
purchase P-25 equipment or otherwise adopt the standard, compliance
with the standard is a primary consideration for government and
public safety purchasers. Users of nationally available 700 MHz
frequencies designed for interoperability are required to use P-25
equipment. In addition, U.S. Federal Government grant programs that
provide assistance in funding for state and local agencies to
purchase interoperable communications equipment for first
responders strongly encourage compliance to P-25 standards.
Accordingly, although funding for LMR purchases by many government
agencies is limited, we believe that, as users upgrade equipment to
achieve interoperability and comply with FCC narrow-banding
mandates, demand for P-25 equipment will continue to grow.
Additionally, the P-25 standard has also been widely adopted in
other countries. The migration to P-25 equipment is primarily
limited to government and public safety agencies. Radio users in
the business and industrial market utilize alternative digital
technologies (e.g., Digital Mobile Radio) and analog LMR
products.


Presently, the
market is dominated by one supplier, Motorola Solutions, Inc.
However, the open architecture of the P-25 standard is designed to
eliminate the ability of one or more suppliers to lock out
competitors. Formerly, because of proprietary characteristics
incorporated in many LMR systems, a customer was effectively
precluded from purchasing additional LMR products from a supplier
other than the initial supplier of the system. Additionally, the
system infrastructure technology was prohibitive for smaller
suppliers to develop and implement. P-25 provides an environment in
which users will increasingly have a wider selection of LMR
suppliers, including smaller suppliers such as RELM.



Description of Products and P-25 CAP Compliance


We
design, manufacture, and market wireless communications equipment
consisting of two-way LMRs, repeaters, base stations and related
components and subsystems. We do not provide complete, integrated,
communications systems and infrastructure. Two-way LMRs can be
units that are hand-held (portable) or installed in vehicles
(mobile). Repeaters expand the range of two-way LMRs, enabling them
to communicate over a wider area. Base station components and
subsystems are installed at radio transmitter sites to improve
performance by enhancing the signal, reducing or eliminating signal
interference and enabling the use of one antenna for both
transmission and reception.


We
employ both analog and digital technologies in our products. Our
digital products are compliant with P-25 specifications. Our P-25
digital products and our analog products function in the VHF
(136MHz  174MHz), UHF (380MHz  470MHz, 450MHz 
520MHz), and 700-800 MHz.


Our
P-25 KNG and KNG2 Series mobile and portable digital radios have
been validated under the P-25 CAP as being P-25 compliant and
interoperable with the communications network infrastructure of six
of our competitors. Since we do not provide our own communications
network infrastructure, we believe CAP validation provides
confidence for federal, state and local emergency response agencies
that our products are a viable and attractive alternative for use
on the infrastructure of our competitors.


The
P-25 CAP is a voluntary program that allows LMR equipment suppliers
to formally demonstrate their products compliance with P-25
requirements. The purpose of the program is to provide federal,
state and local emergency response agencies with evidence that the
communications equipment they are purchasing satisfies P-25
standards for performance, conformance and interoperability. The
program is a result of legislation passed by the U.S. Congress to
improve communication interoperability for first responders and is
a partnership of the Department of Homeland Securitys
(DHS) Command, Control and Interoperability Division,
the National Institute of Standards and Technology, radio equipment
manufacturers and the emergency response community.



Description of Markets



Government and Public Safety Market


The
government and public safety market includes military, fire,
rescue, law enforcement, homeland security and emergency responder
personnel. In most instances, BK Radio-branded products serve this
market and are sold either directly to end-users or through two-way
communications dealers. Government and public safety sales
represented approximately 97% of our total sales for 2017 and 2016,
and 90% for 2015.





4











Government and
public safety users currently use products that employ either P-25
digital or analog technology. However, public safety users in
federal, state and local government agencies and certain other
countries are migrating to solely using digital P-25 products. The
evolution of the standard and compliant digital products is
explained in the Industry Overviewsection at the beginning of this
report.



Business and Industrial Market


This
market includes enterprises of all sizes that require fast and
affordable push-to-talk communication among a discrete group of
users, such as corporate disaster recovery, hotels, construction
firms, schools and transportation service providers. Users in this
market continue to predominantly utilize analog products. We offer
products to this market under the RELM brand name. Our sales in
this market may be direct to end-users or to dealers and
distributors who then resell the products. Our sales to this market
represented approximately 3% of our total sales for 2017 and 2016,
and 10% for 2015.



Engineering, Research and Development


Our
engineering and product development activities are conducted by a
team of 25 employees combined with contract engineering resources.
Their primary development focus has been the design of a new line
of next- generation multiband P-25 digital products to supplement
our flagship KNG and KNG2 products. The first models in the KNG
line were introduced in 2008 and are included on our primary
federal contract vehicles. Subsequently, we added UHF and
700/800MHz products, as well as P-25 Phase II TDMA (Time Division
Multiple Access) trunking. The KNG2 Series was introduced in 2016.
Our P-25 products also provide encrypted operation, GPS location
and network authentication capabilities.


A
segment of our engineering team is responsible for product
specifications based on customer requirements and participates in
quality assurance activities. They also have primary responsibility
for applied engineering and production engineering.


For
2017, 2016 and 2015, our engineering and development expenses were
approximately $5.0 million, $4.1million and
$3.6million, respectively.



Intellectual Property


We
presently have no U.S. patents in force. We have applied for
several trademarks related to the names BK
Technologies and BK Radio. We also rely on
trade secret laws and employee and third-party nondisclosure
agreements to protect our intellectual property
rights.



Manufacturing and Raw Materials


Our
manufacturing strategy is to utilize the highest quality and most
cost-effective resources available for every aspect of our
manufacturing. Consistent with that strategy, for many years we
have successfully utilized outside contract arrangements for
different segments of our manufacturing operations. These
arrangements, some of which are with offshore concerns, have been
managed and updated to meet our present requirements, and they
continue to be instrumental in controlling our product costs,
allowing us to be competitive and manage our gross
margins.


Contract
manufacturers produce various subassemblies and products on our
behalf. Generally, the contract manufacturers procure raw materials
from RELM-approved sources and complete manufacturing activities in
accordance with our specifications. Manufacturing agreements and
purchase orders govern the business relationship with the contract
manufacturers. These agreements and purchase orders have various
terms and conditions and may be renewed or modified upon agreement
by both parties. Their scope may also be expanded to include new
products in the future.





5











We plan
to continue utilizing contract manufacturing where it furthers our
business objectives. This strategy allows us to focus on our core
technological competencies of product design and development, and
to reduce the substantial capital investment required to
manufacture our products. We also believe that our use of
experienced, high-volume manufacturers will provide greater
manufacturing specialization and expertise, higher levels of
flexibility and responsiveness, and faster delivery of product, all
of which contribute toward product cost control. To ensure that
products manufactured by others meet our quality standards, our
production and engineering team works closely with our ISO 9002
industry-qualified contract manufacturers in all key aspects of the
production process. We establish product specifications, select the
components and, in some cases, the suppliers. We retain all
document control. We also work with our contract manufacturers to
improve process control and product design and conduct periodic
on-site inspections.


We rely
upon a limited number of both domestic and foreign suppliers for
several key products and components. Approximately 61.6% of our
material, subassembly and product procurements in 2017 were sourced
from three suppliers. We place purchase orders from time to time
with these suppliers and have no guaranteed supply arrangements. In
addition, certain components are obtained from single sources.
During 2017, 2016 and 2015, our operations were not materially
impaired due to delays from single-source suppliers. However, the
absence of a single-source component could potentially delay the
manufacture of finished products. We manage the risk of such delays
by securing secondary sources where possible and redesigning
products in response to component shortages or obsolescence. We
strive to maintain strong relationships with all our suppliers. We
anticipate that the current relationships, or others that are
comparable, will be available to us in the future.



Seasonal Impact


We may
experience fluctuations in our quarterly results, in part due to
governmental customer spending patterns that are influenced by
government fiscal year budgets and appropriations. We may also
experience fluctuations in our quarterly results, derived in part
from sales to federal and state agencies that participate in
wildland fire-suppression efforts, which may be greater during the
summer season when forest fire activity is heightened. In some
years, these factors may cause an increase in sales for the second
and third quarters compared with the first and fourth quarters of
the same fiscal year. Such increases in sales may cause quarterly
variances in our cash flow from operations and overall financial
results.



Significant Customers


Sales
to the U.S. Government represented approximately 38%, 58% and 36%
of our total sales for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and
2015, respectively. These sales were primarily to various
government agencies, including those within the DHS, the U.S.
Department of Defense (DOD), the USFS and the
DOI.



Backlog


Our
backlog of unshipped customer orders was approximately $8.3 million
and $6.6million as of December 31, 2017 and 2016,
respectively. The decrease is attributed primarily to the timing
and fulfillment of orders.



Competition


We
compete with other domestic and foreign companies primarily in the
North American market, but also internationally. One dominant
competitor, Motorola Solutions, Inc., is estimated to have well in
excess of half the market for LMR products. We compete by
capitalizing on our advantages and strengths, which include price,
product quality and customer responsiveness.



Government Regulation


We are
subject to various international and U.S. federal, state and local
laws affecting our business. Any finding that we have been or
are in noncompliance with such laws could result in, among other
things, governmental penalties. Further, changes in existing
laws or new laws may adversely affect our business and could also
have the effect of limiting capital expenditures by our customers,
which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.





6











In
connection with our U.S. Government contracts, we are subject to
the U.S. Federal Government procurement regulations that may
provide the buyer with the right to audit and review our
performance, as well as our compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. In addition, our business is subject to
government regulation based on the products we sell that may be
subject to government requirements, such as obtaining an export
license or end-user certificate from the buyer, in certain
circumstances.If a government audit uncovers improper
or illegal activities, or if we are alleged to have violated any
laws or regulations governing the products we sell under our
government contracts, we may be subject to civil and criminal
penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of
contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and
suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. Federal
Government agencies.


Our
products are regulated by the FCC in the U.S. and similar agencies
in other countries where we offer our products. Consequently,
we and our customers could be positively or negatively affected by
the rules and regulations adopted from time to time by the FCC or
regulatory agencies in other countries. For example, our
wireless communications products, including two-way LMRs, are
subject to FCC regulations related to radio frequency
spectrum. As a result of limited spectrum availability, the
FCC has mandated that new LMR equipment utilize technology that is
more spectrum-efficient, which effectively meant that the industry
had to migrate to digital technology. These types of mandates
may provide us with new business opportunities or may require us to
modify all or some of our products so that they can continue to be
manufactured and marketed, which may lead to an increase in our
capital expenditures and research and development
expenses.


As a
public company, we are also subject to regulations of the SEC and
the stock exchange on which we are listed (NYSE
American).


Some of
our operations use substances regulated under various federal,
state, local and international laws governing the environment and
worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge
of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and
disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of
contaminated sites, as well as relating to the protection of the
environment. Certain of our products are subject to various
federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical
substances in electronic products. During 2017, compliance with
these U.S. federal, state and local and international laws did not
have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position.



Employees


As of
December 31, 2017, we had 119 employees, including 111 full-time
employees, most of whom are located at our West Melbourne, Florida
facility; 55 of these employees are engaged in direct manufacturing
or manufacturing support, 25 in engineering, 20 in sales and
marketing and 11 in headquarters, accounting and human resources
activities. Our employees are not represented by any collective
bargaining agreements, nor has there ever been a labor-related work
stoppage. We believe our relations with our employees are
good.



Information Relating to Domestic and Export Sales


The
following table summarizes our sales of LMR products by customer
location:









2017




2016




2015








(in
millions)





United
States



$34.3


$46.3


$25.1



International


5.1


4.4


4.6



Total


$39.4


$50.7


$29.7





Additional
financial information is provided in the Consolidated Financial
Statements at pages F-1 through F-22.





7












Item 1A.Risk Factors



Various portions of this report contain forward-looking statements
that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results, performance
or achievements could differ materially from those anticipated in
these forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk
factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this
report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any
forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect subsequent
events or circumstances or the occurrence of unanticipated
events.



We depend on the success of our LMR product line


We
currently depend on our LMR products as our sole source of sales. A
decline in the price of and/or demand for LMR products, as a result
of competition, technological change, the introduction of new
products by us or others or a failure to manage product transitions
successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our
future success will largely depend on the successful introduction
and sale of new digital LMR products. Even if we successfully
develop these products, the development of which is a complex and
uncertain process requiring innovation and investment, they may not
achieve market acceptance, which could have a material adverse
effect on us.



We are engaged in a highly competitive industry


We face
intense competition from other LMR suppliers, and the failure to
compete effectively could materially and adversely affect our
market share, financial condition and results of operations. The
largest supplier of LMR products in the world, Motorola Solutions,
Inc., currently is estimated to have well in excess of half the
market for LMR products. This supplier is also the worlds
largest supplier of P-25 products. Some of our competitors are
significantly larger and have longer operating histories, greater
name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater
financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. Some
also have established reputations for success in developing and
supplying LMR products, including providing complete, integrated,
communications systems and infrastructure. We do not provide
complete, integrated, communications systems and infrastructure.
These advantages may allow them:





to be more
attractive to customers who desire a single-source supplier of LMR
products;







to respond more
quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer
requirements, which may render our products obsolete or less
marketable;







to engage in more
extensive research and development;







to undertake more
far-reaching marketing campaigns;







to be able to take
advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities;







to adopt more
aggressive pricing policies; and







to be more
attractive to potential employees and strategic
partners.




Many of
our competitors have established extensive networks of sales
locations and multiple distribution channels that are more
extensive than ours. We may not be able to compete successfully and
competitive pressures may materially and adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial
condition.


An
increase in the demand for P-25 products could benefit competitors
that are better financed and positioned to meet such demand. P-25
products have been brought to the market by an increasing number of
our competitors. Our first P-25 portable radio was brought to
market in 2003, and in recent years we introduced two new lines of
P-25 products, the KNG and KNG2 Series. We are currently developing
a new line of multiband products. Bringing such products to market
and achieving a significant market penetration for them will
continue to require time and expenditures of funds. We may be
unsuccessful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, fully
functional product enhancements or new products that respond to
these and other technological advances, and our new products may
not be accepted by customers. An inability to successfully develop
and/or market products could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial
condition.





8












Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology and
our success is dependent on our ability to adapt to such
changes


Our
business could suffer if we are unable to keep pace with rapid
technological changes and product development in our industry. The
market for our LMR products is characterized by ongoing
technological development, evolving industry standards and frequent
product introductions. The LMR industry is experiencing a
transition from analog LMR products to digital LMR products. In
addition, the APCO P-25 standard is being increasingly adopted. If
we are unable to successfully keep up with these changes, our
business, financial condition and results of operations could be
materially adversely affected.



We depend heavily on sales to the U.S. Government


We are
subject to risks associated with our reliance on sales to the U.S.
Government. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 38%
of our sales were to agencies and departments of the U.S.
Government. These sales were primarily to agencies of the DHS, DOD,
USFS and DOI. We may be unable to maintain this government
business. Our ability to maintain our government business will
depend on many factors outside of our control, including
competitive factors, changes in government personnel making
contract decisions, spending limits and political factors. The loss
of sales to the U.S. Government would have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.


In
addition, most U.S. Government customers award business through a
competitive bidding process, which results in greater competition
and increased pricing pressure. The bidding process involves
significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids for contracts
that may not be awarded to us. Even if we are awarded contracts, we
may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to
fulfill a contract, which could negatively impact the profitability
of any contract award to us. In addition, following a contract
award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract
modification or contract rescission as a result of customer delay
or our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to
us in competitive bidding. Any of these events could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.



Our business is partially dependent on U.S. Government contracts,
which are highly regulated and subject to terminations and
oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives that could
result in adverse findings and negatively impact our
business


Our
U.S. Government business is subject to specific procurement
regulations with numerous compliance requirements. These
requirements, although customary in U.S. Government contracting,
increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs may
increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could
have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Failure to
comply with these regulations could lead to suspension or debarment
from U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of
time. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws
or policies, including those related to procurement integrity, U.S.
Government security regulations, employment practices, protection
of criminal justice data, protection of the environment, accuracy
of records, proper recording of costs, foreign corruption and the
False Claims Act.


Generally, U.S.
Government contracts are subject to oversight audits by U.S.
Government representatives and could result in adjustments to our
contracts. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific
contract or grant may not be allowed, and such costs already
reimbursed to us may have to be refunded. Future audits and
adjustments, if required, may materially reduce our revenues or
profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative
audit findings could also result in investigations, termination of
a contract, forfeiture of profits or reimbursements, suspension of
payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business
with the U.S. Government. All contracts with the U.S. Government
are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the U.S.
Government.


In
addition, contacts with government officials and participation in
political activities are areas that are tightly controlled by
federal, state, local and international laws. Failure to comply
with these laws could cost us opportunities to seek certain
government sales opportunities or even result in fines, prosecution
or debarment.





9












Our business is subject to the economic and political risks of
manufacturing products in foreign countries


We
engage in business with manufacturers located in other countries.
Approximately 65.7% of our material, subassembly and product
procurements in 2017 were sourced internationally. Accordingly, we
are subject to special considerations and risks not typically
associated with companies operating solely in the U.S. These
include the risks associated with the political, economic and legal
environments in such foreign countries, among others. Our business,
operating results and financial condition may be materially and
adversely affected by, among other things, changes in the general
political and social conditions in foreign countries in which we
maintain sourcing relationships, unfavorable changes in U.S. trade
legislation and regulations, the imposition of governmental
economic sanctions on countries in which we do business or other
trade barriers, threats of war, terrorism or governmental
instability, labor disruptions, currency controls, fluctuating
exchange rates with respect to contracts not denominated in U.S.
dollars, and unanticipated or unfavorable changes in government
policies with respect to laws and regulations, anti-inflation
measures and method of taxation. If we were unable to navigate
foreign regulatory environments, or if we were unable to enforce
our contract rights in foreign countries, our business could be
adversely impacted. Any of these events could interrupt our
manufacturing process and cause operational disruptions, increase
prices for manufacturing, reduce our sales or otherwise have an
adverse effect on our operating performance.



We carry substantial quantities of inventory, and inaccurate
estimates of necessary inventory could materially harm our
business, operating results and financial condition


We
carry a significant amount of inventory to service customer
requirements in a timely manner. If we are unable to sell this
inventory over a commercially reasonable time, in the future we may
be required to take inventory markdowns, which would reduce our net
sales and/or gross margins. In addition, it is critical to our
success that we accurately predict trends in customer demand,
including seasonal fluctuations, in the future and do not overstock
unpopular products or fail to sufficiently stock popular products.
Both scenarios could materially harm our business, operating
results and financial condition.



We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses
in the event we fail to properly estimate our costs or hedge our
risks associated with currency fluctuations


We
sometimes enter into firm fixed-price contracts. If our initial
cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts.
Because certain of these contracts involve new technologies and
applications, require us to engage subcontractors and/or can last
multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological
difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems
with our subcontractors or suppliers and other cost overruns, can
result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even
unprofitable to us and have an adverse impact on our financial
results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates or
currency fluctuations could have an adverse impact on the
profitability of longer-term contracts.



Our investment strategy may not be successful, which could
adversely impact our financial condition


We may
invest part of our cash balances in public companies. For example,
as of December 31, 2017, we held approximately 1.3 million shares
of the common stock of Iteris, Inc. (Nasdaq: ITI)
(Iteris). These types of investments are more risky
than holding our cash balances as bank deposits or, for example,
such conservative investments as treasury bonds or money market
funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain
or enhance the value or the performance of the companies in which
we have invested or in which we may invest in the future, or that
we will be able to achieve returns or benefits from these
investments. We may lose all or part of our investment relating to
such companies if their value decreases as a result of their
financial performance or for any other reason. If our interests
differ from those of other investors in companies over which we do
not have control, we may be unable to effect any change at those
companies. We are not required to meet any diversification
standards, and our investments may become concentrated. If our
investment strategy is not successful or we achieve less than
expected returns from these investments, it could have a material
adverse effect on us. The Board of Directors may also change our
investment strategy at any time, and such changes could further
increase our exposure, which could adversely impact
us.





10












Fundamental Global Investors, LLC, with its affiliates, is our
largest stockholder whose interests may differ from the interests
of our other stockholders


The
interests of Fundamental Global Investors, LLC (Fundamental
Global) may differ from the interests of our other
stockholders. Fundamental Global and its affiliates, including
Ballantyne Strong, Inc., of which Fundamental Global is the largest
stockholder, and CWA Asset Management Group, LLC, 50% of which is
owned by Fundamental Global, together hold approximately 35% of the
Companys outstanding shares of common stock. Kyle Cerminara,
Chief Executive Officer, Partner and Manager of Fundamental Global
and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ballantyne Strong, Inc.
and Lewis Johnson, President, Partner and Manager of Fundamental
Global Investors, LLC and a director of Ballantyne Strong, Inc.,
serve on our Board of Directors. As a result of its ownership
position and Messrs. Cerminaras and Johnsons
positions with the Company, Fundamental Global has the ability to
exert significant influence over our policies and affairs,
including the power to impact the election of our directors, and
approval of any action requiring a stockholder vote, such as
amendments to our articles of incorporation, by-laws, significant
stock issuances, mergers and asset sales. Fundamental Global may
have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders and
may vote in a way with which our other stockholders disagree and
which may be adverse to their interests. Fundamental Globals
significant ownership may also have the effect of delaying,
preventing or deterring a change of control of the Company, could
deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for
their common stock as part of a sale of the Company and might
ultimately affect the market price of our common
stock.



If we are unable to maintain our brand and reputation, our
business, results of operations and prospects could be materially
harmed


Our
business, results of operations and prospects depend, in part, on
maintaining and strengthening our brand and reputation for
providing high-quality products and services. Reputational value is
based in large part on perceptions. Although reputations may take
decades to build, any negative incidents can quickly erode trust
and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity,
governmental investigations or litigation. If problems with our
products cause operational disruption or other difficulties, or
there are delays or other issues with the delivery of our products
or services, our brand and reputation could be diminished. Damage
to our reputation could also arise from actual or perceived legal
violations, product safety issues, data security breaches, actual
or perceived poor employee relations, actual or perceived poor
service, actual or perceived poor privacy practices, operational or
sustainability issues, actual or perceived ethical issues or other
events within or outside of our control that generate negative
publicity with respect to us. Any event that has the potential to
negatively impact our reputation could lead to lost sales, loss of
new opportunities and retention and recruiting difficulties. If we
fail to promote and maintain our brand and reputation successfully,
our business, results of operations and prospects could be
materially harmed.



We face a number of risks related to challenging economic
conditions


Current
economic conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere remain uncertain.
These challenging economic conditions could materially and
adversely impact our business, liquidity and financial condition in
a number of ways, including:





Potential deferment or
reduction of purchases by customers: Significant deficits
and limited appropriations confronting our federal, state and local
government customers may cause them to defer or reduce purchases of
our products. Furthermore, uncertainty about current and future
economic conditions may cause customers to defer purchases of our
products in response to tighter credit and decreased cash
availability.







Negative impact from
increased financial pressures on third-party dealers, distributors
and suppliers: We make sales to certain of our customers
through third-party dealers and distributors. If credit pressures
or other financial difficulties result in insolvencies of these
third parties and we are unable to successfully transition the end
customers to purchase our products from other third parties, or
directly from us, it could materially and adversely impact our
operating results and financial condition. Challenging economic
conditions may also impact the financial condition of one or more
of our key suppliers, which could negatively affect our ability to
secure product to meet our customers demands.







11














Limited access by us to
credit and capital: Although we do not anticipate needing
additional capital in the near term, the credit markets may limit
our access to credit and impair our ability to raise capital, if
needed, on acceptable terms or at all.





We depend on a limited number of manufacturers and on a limited
number of suppliers of components to produce our products and the
inability to obtain adequate and timely delivery of supplies and
manufactured products could have a material adverse effect on
us


We
contract with manufacturers to produce portions of our products,
and our dependence on a limited number of contract manufacturers
exposes us to certain risks, including shortages of manufacturing
capacity, reduced control over delivery schedules, quality
assurance, production yield and costs. If any of our manufacturers
terminate production or cannot meet our production requirements, we
may have to rely on other contract manufacturing sources or
identify and qualify new contract manufacturers. The lead-time
required to qualify a new manufacturer could range from
approximately two to six months. Despite efforts to do so, we may
not be able to identify or qualify new contract manufacturers in a
timely and cost-effective manner, and these new manufacturers may
not allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our
requirements. Any significant delay in our ability to obtain
adequate quantities of our products from our current or alternative
contract manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of
operations.


In
addition, our dependence on limited and sole source suppliers of
components involves several risks, including a potential inability
to obtain an adequate supply of components, price increases, late
deliveries and poor component quality. Approximately 61.6% of our
material, subassembly and product procurements in 2017 were sourced
from three suppliers. We place purchase orders from time to time
with these suppliers and have no guaranteed supply arrangements.
Disruption or termination of the supply of these components could
delay shipments of our products. The lead-time required for orders
of some of our components is as much as six months. In addition,
the lead-time required to qualify new suppliers for our components
is as much as six months. If we are unable to accurately predict
our component needs, or if our component supply is disrupted, we
may miss market opportunities by not being able to meet the demand
for our products. This may damage our relationships with current
and prospective customers and, thus, have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.



We may not be able to manage our growth


Acquisitions and
other business transactions may disrupt or otherwise have a
negative impact on our business and results of operations. We do
not have any acquisitions currently pending, and there can be no
assurance that we will complete any future acquisitions or other
business transactions or that any such transactions which are
completed will prove favorable to our business. We intend to seek
stockholder approval for any such transactions only when so
required by applicable law or regulation. Any acquisitions of
businesses and their respective assets also involve the risks that
the businesses and assets acquired may prove to be less valuable
than we expect and we may assume unknown or unexpected liabilities,
costs and problems. We hope to grow rapidly, and the failure to
manage our growth could materially and adversely affect our
business, operations and financial condition. Our business plan
contemplates, among other things, leveraging our products and
technology for growth in our customer base and sales. This growth,
if it materializes, could significantly challenge our management,
employees, operations and financial capabilities. In the event of
this expansion, we have to continue to implement and improve our
operating systems and to expand, train, and manage our employee
base. If we are unable to manage and integrate our expanding
operations effectively, our business, results of operations and
financial condition could be materially and adversely
affected.



Retention of our executive officers and key personnel is critical
to our business


Our key
executives are critical to our success. We do not have employment
agreements with these individuals, and we cannot be sure that we
will retain their services. The loss of services from any of our
executive officers or these other key employees due to any reason
whatsoever could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.





12











Our
success is also dependent upon our ability to hire and retain
qualified operations, development and other personnel. Competition
for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and we may be
unable to hire or retain necessary personnel. The inability to
attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.



We rely on a combination of contract, trademark and trade secret
laws to protect our intellectual property rights, and failure to
effectively utilize or successfully assert these rights could
negatively impact us


Currently, we hold
no U.S. patents. We have applied for several trademarks related to
the names BK Technologies and BK Radio.
As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into
nondisclosure agreements with our employees, distributors and
customers and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary
information. We also rely on trade secret laws to protect our
intellectual property rights. There is a risk that we may be unable
to prevent another party from manufacturing and selling competing
products or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights.
Our intellectual property rights, and any additional rights we may
obtain in the future, may be invalidated, circumvented or
challenged in the future. It may also be particularly difficult to
protect our products and intellectual property under the laws of
certain countries in which our products are or may be manufactured
or sold. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert intellectual
property rights could harm our competitive position and could
negatively impact us.



Rising health care costs may have a material adverse effect on
us


The
costs of employee health care insurance have been increasing in
recent years due to rising health care costs, legislative changes
and general economic conditions. We cannot predict what other
health care programs and regulations ultimately will be implemented
at the federal or state level or the effect of any future
legislation or regulation in the U.S. on our business and results
of operations. In addition, we cannot predict when or if Congress
will repeal and/or replace certain health care programs and
regulations at the federal level and the impact such changes would
have on our business. A continued increase in health care costs
could have a material adverse effect on us.



The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential
exposures


We
maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance,
but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the
hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including
deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We are potentially at
risk if one or more of our insurance carriers fail. Additionally,
severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets
could adversely impact the ratings and survival of some insurers.
In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current
levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage
that we maintain.



Our stock price is vulnerable to significant fluctuations,
including due to our fluctuating quarterly operating
results


Our
quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly from
quarter to quarter and may be below the expectations of the
investment community, resulting in volatility for the market price
for our common stock. Other factors affecting the volatility of our
stock price include:





future
announcements concerning us or our competitors;







the announcement or
introduction of technological innovations or new products by us or
our competitors;







changes in product
pricing policies by us or our competitors;







changes in earnings
estimates by us or our competitors or by securities
analysts;







additions or
departures of our key personnel; and







sales of our common
stock.




In
addition, the stock market is subject to price and volume
fluctuations affecting the market price for the stock of many
companies generally, which fluctuations often are unrelated to
operating performance.





13












Natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other catastrophic
events beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on
our operations and financial condition


The
occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as fires,
hurricanes, tornados, tsunamis, floods and earthquakes;
geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which
our suppliers or manufacturers are located, or acts of war or
terrorism (wherever located around the world) or military
activities disrupting transportation, communication or utility
systems or otherwise causing damage to our business, employees,
suppliers, manufacturers and customers; or other highly disruptive
events, such as nuclear accidents, pandemics, unusual weather
conditions or cyber attacks, could have a material adverse effect
on our business, operations and financial condition. Such events
could result, among other things, in operational disruptions,
physical damage to or destruction or disruption of one or more of
our properties or properties used by third parties in connection
with the supply of products or services to us, the lack of an
adequate workforce in parts or all of our operations and
communications and transportation disruptions. These factors could
also cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result
in increased volatility in the U.S. and global financial markets
and economy. Such occurrences could have a material adverse effect
on us and could also have indirect consequences, such as increases
in the costs of insurance, if they result in significant loss of
property or other insurable damage.



The availability of our credit facility is conditioned upon our
being in compliance with certain covenants


We have
a $1.0 million credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank
(SVB). As of December 31, 2017 and as of the date of
this report, there were no borrowings outstanding under the
facility. The loan and security agreement governing the credit
facility contains certain financial maintenance and other
covenants. Failure to comply with any of these covenants would
constitute an event of default that would permit SVB to accelerate
repayment of any outstanding borrowings at the time of occurrence.
We are currently in compliance with all covenants. However, there
is no assurance that we will be able to comply with the covenants
in the future or, in the event we fail to do so, that we will be
able to either obtain a waiver from SVB or refinance the credit
facility in a timely manner on acceptable terms or at
all.



A security breach or other significant disruption of our
information technology systems, or those of our distributors,
manufacturers, suppliers and other partners, caused by cyber attack
or other means, could have a negative impact on our operations,
sales and results of operations


Our
information technology systems, and those of our distributors,
manufacturers, suppliers and other partners, are potentially
vulnerable to damage, unauthorized access or interruption from a
variety of sources, including, but not limited to, continually
evolving cyber attacks (including social engineering and phishing
attempts), cyber intrusion, computer viruses, security breach,
energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, sabotage, war and
telecommunication failures. Cyber attacks are rapidly evolving and
becoming increasingly sophisticated. It is possible that computer
hackers and others might compromise our security measures, or
security measures of those parties that we do business with now or
in the future, and obtain the personal information of our
customers, employees and partners or our business information. A
cyber attack or other significant disruption involving our
information technology systems or those of our distributors,
manufacturers, suppliers or other partners, could result in the
unauthorized release of proprietary, confidential or sensitive
information of ours or our customers. Such unauthorized access to,
or release of, this information could expose us to data loss, allow
others to unfairly compete with us, subject us to litigation,
government enforcement actions, regulatory penalties and costly
response measures, and could seriously disrupt our operations. Any
resulting negative publicity could also significantly harm our
reputation. Any or all of the foregoing could have a negative
impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations
and cash flow.





14












The risk of noncompliance with U.S. and foreign laws and
regulations applicable to us could materially adversely affect
us


Failure
to comply with government regulations applicable to our business
could result in penalties and reputational damage. Our products are
regulated by the FCC and otherwise subject to a wide range of
global laws. As a public company, we are also subject to
regulations of the SEC and the stock exchange on which we are
listed. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently,
have tended to become more stringent over time and increase our
cost of doing business. Compliance with existing or future laws
could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our
production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or
acquire facilities, restrict what products and services we can
offer, and generally impact our financial performance. Failure to
comply with or to respond to changes in these requirements and
regulations could result in penalties on us, such as fines,
restrictions on operations or a temporary or permanent closure of
our facility. These penalties could have a material adverse effect
on our business, operating results and financial condition. In
addition, existing or new regulatory requirements or
interpretations could materially adversely impact us.



We may not be able to maintain our NYSE American
listing


Our
common stock has been listed on the NYSE American since 2005. If we
are unable to satisfy the continued listing standards of the NYSE
American, which include, among others, minimum stockholders
equity, market capitalization, pre-tax income and per share sales
price, our common stock may be delisted. If our common stock is
delisted, we would be forced to list our common stock on the OTC
Bulletin Board or some other quotation medium, depending on our
ability to meet the specific requirements of those quotation
systems. In that case, we may lose some or all of our institutional
investors, and selling our common stock on the OTC Markets would be
more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be
bought and sold and transactions could be delayed. These factors
could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask
prices for shares of our common stock. If this happens, we will
have greater difficulty accessing the capital markets to raise any
additional necessary capital.



Any infringement claim against us could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition


As the
number of competing products available in the market increases and
the functions of those products further overlap, the potential for
infringement claims may increase. Any such claims, with or without
merit, may result in costly litigation or require us to redesign
the affected product to avoid infringement or require us to obtain
a license for future sales of the affected product. Any of the
foregoing could damage our reputation and have a material adverse
effect upon our business, results of operations and financial
condition. Any litigation resulting from any such claim could
require us to incur substantial costs and divert significant
resources, including the efforts of our management and engineering
personnel.



Reforms to the U.S. federal income tax regulations could adversely
affect us



On
December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Tax
Act) was signed into law, substantially reforming the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code, effective January 1, 2018. This legislation
includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, including a decrease in
corporate tax rates, which results in changes in the valuation of
our deferred tax assets and liabilities, among other significant
changes. Some of these reforms could adversely affect our business,
and we continue to evaluate the effect the 2017 Tax Act may have on
us.



We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to utilize
under certain circumstances


If we
incur future operating losses, we may be required to provide some
or all of our deferred tax assets with a valuation allowance,
resulting in additional non-cash income tax expense. The change in
the valuation may have a material impact on future results. If we
do not achieve sufficient federal taxable income in future years to
utilize all or some of our net operating loss carryforwards
(NOLs), they will expire.





15












We may be unable to obtain components and parts that are verified
to be Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)
conflict-free, which could result in reputational
damage


The
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes
disclosure requirements regarding the use of tin, tantalum,
tungsten and gold (which are defined as conflict
minerals) in our products and whether these materials
originated from the DRC or an adjoining country. The SEC rules
necessitate a complex compliance process and related administrative
expense for a company once it determines a conflict mineral is
necessary to the functionality or production of a product that the
company manufactures or contracts to manufacture. Such companies
must then conduct a reasonable country of origin inquiry to
determine if the conflict minerals originated in the covered
countries and undertake due diligence on the source and chain of
custody in order to file a conflict minerals report with the SEC.
In addition to the increased administrative expense and management
involvement, there is a limited pool of suppliers who can provide
us conflict-free components, parts and manufactured
products, particularly since our supply chain is complex and, as a
purchaser of finished components, we are several layers removed
from the mining of any potential conflict minerals that may be
contained in our products. We may not be able to obtain
conflict-free products or supplies in sufficient quantities or at
competitive prices for our operations. We may also continue to be
unable to determine if our products are conflict-free. If we
discover that our products include minerals that have been
identified as not found to be DRC conflict-free, or
if we continue to be unable to determine whether such minerals are
included in our products, we may face reputational challenges with
our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders as a
result.



Future sales of shares of our common stock may negatively affect
our stock price and impair our ability to raise equity
capital


Approximately
6.4million (46%) of our shares of outstanding common stock as
of December 31, 2017 are owned by certain of our executive officers
and directors and other affiliates, and may be resold publicly at
any time, subject to the volume and other restrictions under
Rule144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Approximately 54% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of
December 31, 2017 are freely tradable without
restriction.


Sales
of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock, or even the
potential for such sales, could lower the market price of our
common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the
sale of equity securities.


Item
1B.Unresolved Staff Comments


None.


Item
2.Properties


We do
not own any real estate. We lease approximately 54,000 square feet
of industrial space at 7100 Technology Drive in West Melbourne,
Florida. The lease has an expiration date of June30, 2020.
Rental, maintenance and tax expenses for this facility were
approximately $472,000, $475,000 and $457,000 in 2017, 2016 and
2015, respectively. We also lease 8,100 square feet of office space
in Lawrence, Kansas, to accommodate a segment of our engineering
team. The lease has an expiration date of December 31, 2019.
Rental, maintenance and tax expenses for this facility were
approximately $108,000 in each of 2017 and 2016, and $104,000 in
2015.





16











Item
3.Legal Proceedings


From
time to time we may be involved in various claims and legal actions
arising in the ordinary course of our business. On March 28, 2017,
The Sales Group, Inc. (TSG) filed a lawsuit in the
U.S. District Court for the Central District of California against
the Company. TSG was a sales representative of the Company that the
Company terminated in March 2017. TSG asserted claims against the
Company for alleged breach of oral contract, violation of the
California and Arizona sales representative statutes, and an
accounting of alleged unpaid sales commissions. TSGs
complaint sought damages in the amount of $6,090,000 for alleged
unpaid past and future sales commissions. On April 3, 2017, counsel
for TSG sent the Company a letter outlining additional alleged
grounds for recovery against the Company and offering to settle the
litigation in exchange for the continued payment of sales
commissions to TSG for a negotiated period, a buyout of TSGs
alleged rights for a negotiated sum or reinstatement of TSG for a
period of at least 2.5 years with commission rates equal to those
in effect at the time of TSGs termination. The matter was
mediated on November 14, 2017, during which the parties agreed to a
settlement. On December 19, 2017, the Company entered into a
settlement agreement with TSG, pursuant to which TSG agreed to
dismiss with prejudice its lawsuit filed against the Company.
Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the Company agreed to pay an
amount of $900,000 to TSG on or before December 31, 2017. The
Company also agreed to pay to TSG commissions, at the rates in
effect since February 7, 2013, on all orders for the
Companys products received and accepted by the Company from
the states of Arizona, California, Nevada and Hawaii from January
1, 2018 through December 31, 2018, other than for (i) sales of the
Companys products to federal government agencies and
offices, (ii) sales of the Companys products to other
end-users, excepting state and local government agencies and
offices, and (iii) sales of parts or service, including warranty
service. In addition, if at any time on or before December 31,
2018, the Company completes a change-in-control transaction, then
the Company will pay to TSG an amount equal to $2 million, less the
amount of commissions paid by the Company with respect to 2018, as
described above. The settlement agreement settles all claims raised
by TSG in its lawsuit against the Company.



There
were no other pending material claims or legal matters as of
December 31, 2017.


Item 4.Mine
Safety Disclosures


Not
applicable.





17












PART II


Item
5.Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities


(a)
Market Information.


Our
common stock trades on the NYSE American under the symbol
RWC. The following tables set forth the high and low
sales price for our common stock for the quarterly periods for the
years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, as reported by the NYSE
American.



Common Stock









High




Low




2017
Quarter Ended













First
Quarter


$5.55


$4.70



Second
Quarter


5.50


3.60



Third
Quarter


4.60


3.40



Fourth
Quarter


4.10


3.40












High




Low




2016
Quarter Ended













First
Quarter


$5.48


$3.70



Second
Quarter


5.81


4.26



Third
Quarter


5.83


4.74



Fourth
Quarter


5.55


4.55






(b)
Holders.


On
February 24, 2018, there were 779 holders of record of our common
stock.


(c)
Dividends.


In May
2016, we announced and implemented a capital return program that
included a quarterly dividend. Pursuant to the program, our Board
of Directors approved two quarterly dividends of $0.09 per share of
our common stock for payment during 2016, one of which was paid on
June 17, 2016 to shareholders of record as of June 1, 2016, and the
other of which was paid on September 16, 2016 to shareholders of
record as of September 1, 2016. On December 7, 2016, our Board of
Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.09 per share of our
common stock, which was paid on January 13, 2017 to shareholders of
record as of January 3, 2017.


In June
2017, our Board of Directors approved the increase in the capital
return program, authorizing the repurchase of 500,000 shares of our
common stock in addition to the 500,000 shares originally
authorized, for a total repurchase authorization of 1 million
shares, pursuant to a stock repurchase plan in conformity with the
provisions of Rule 10b5-1 and Rule 10b-18 promulgated under the
Exchange Act. The repurchase program has no termination date.
Pursuant to the capital return program, during 2017, the Board of
Directors declared quarterly dividends on our common stock of $0.09
per share on March 17, and $0.02 per share on June 14, September 18
and December 6. The dividends were payable to shareholders of
record as of March 31, 2017, June 30, 2017, October 2, 2017 and
January 2, 2018, respectively. These dividends were paid on April
17, 2017, July 17, 2017, October 16, 2017 and January 16,
2018.


The
declaration and payment of cash dividends, if any, is subject to
the discretion of the Board of Directors. The Boards final
determination as to whether to declare and pay dividends is based
upon its consideration of our operating results, financial
condition and anticipated capital requirements, as well as such
other factors it may deem relevant. In addition, our credit
facility provides that the payment of cash dividends in any
twelve-month period may not exceed $5.0 million.





18











(d)
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.





Period



Total Number
of Shares Purchased




Average Price
Paid Per Share (1)




Total Number
of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs
(2)




Maximum Number
of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under Publicly Announced Plans
or Programs (2)




10/01/17 
10/31/17


14,902


$3.74


14,902


858,288



11/01/17 
11/30/17


17,293


$3.86


17,293


840,995



12/01/17 
12/31/17


32,889


$3.64


32,889


808,106



Total


65,084


$3.74


65,084









(1)
Average price paid
per share of common stock repurchased is the executed price,
including commissions paid to brokers.





(2)
The Company has a
repurchase program of up to 1 million shares of the Companys
common stock that can be purchased, from time to time, pursuant to
a stock repurchase plan in conformity with the provisions of Rule
10b5-1 and Rule 10b-18 promulgated under the Exchange Act. The
repurchase program has no termination date.




Item
6.Selected Financial Data


Not
required for smaller reporting companies.


Item
7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations



Executive Summary


2017
was a year of transition during which we implemented significant
changes. These changes included reconfiguring the Board of
Directors and senior management, while transforming our strategic
direction and improving many aspects of our operations. After
assessing our business and markets, new product development
initiatives were launched, while others that were not consistent
with our strategic plans were discontinued. We also performed a
comprehensive review of our operations, making changes to improve
efficiencies and quality.


Total
sales in 2017 decreased 22.3% to approximately $39.4 million,
compared with approximately $50.7 million for the prior year. The
prior year benefited from significant sales to one customer under
our contract with the U.S. Transportation Security Administration
(TSA), which were not fully replicated in 2017.
Absent the impact of sales to the TSA, 2017 sales increased
approximately 20.9% from 2016.


Gross
profit margin as a percentage of sales in 2017 was approximately
24.2%, compared with 33.7% for 2016. Our gross profit margin is
primarily a reflection of the mix of products sold, manufacturing
volumes and competitive factors. Gross profit margin for 2017 was
impacted by a $3.2 million one-time charge to write-off inventory
and approximately $1.8 million of product-related service charges.
Gross profit margin for the prior year reflected competitive
pressures associated with the TSA contract.


Selling, general
and administrative (SG&A) expenses for 2017
totaled approximately $14.6 million, or 37.0% of sales, compared
with $12.8 million, or 25.3% of sales for 2016. The increase in
SG&A expenses was attributed primarily to new product
development, legal fees and senior management changes


The
changes in sales, gross profit margin and SG&A expenses
combined to yield a pre-tax loss for 2017 totaling approximately
$4.8 million, compared with pre-tax income of $4.3 million for
2016. We recognized a net income tax benefit of approximately $1.2
million, compared with income tax expense totaling approximately
$1.6 million for 2016. Our income tax benefit and expense for both
years is largely non-cash, as a result of deferred items partially
derived from NOLs.





19











We
recognized a net loss for 2017 totaling approximately $3.6 million
($0.27 per basic and diluted share), compared with net income of
approximately $2.7 million ($0.20 per basic share and $0.19 per
diluted share) for 2016.


As of
December 31, 2017, working capital totaled approximately $26.7
million, of which $12.7 million was comprised of cash, cash
equivalents and trade receivables. This compares with working
capital totaling approximately $23.4 million at year end 2016,
which included $14.4 million of cash, cash equivalents and trade
receivables. In addition, as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, there
were no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit
facility.


We may
experience fluctuations in our quarterly results, in part, due to
governmental customer spending patterns that are influenced by
government fiscal year-end budgets and appropriations. We may also
experience fluctuations in our quarterly results, in part, due to
our sales to federal and state agencies that participate in
wildland fire-suppression efforts, which may be greater during the
summer season when forest fire activity is heightened. In some
years, these factors may cause an increase in sales for the second
and third quarters compared with the first and fourth quarters of
the same fiscal year. Such increases in sales may cause quarterly
variances in our cash flow from operations and overall financial
condition.


In
December 2017, the 2017 Tax Act was enacted. The 2017 Tax Act
represents major tax reform legislation that, among other
provisions, reduces the U.S. corporate tax rate. See Note 8 to the
consolidated financial statements for further information on the
financial statement impact of the 2017 Tax Act.



Results of Operations


As an
aid to understanding our operating results, the following table
shows items from our consolidated statements of operations
expressed as apercentage of sales:









Percent of
Sales
for Years
Ended December31








2017




2016




Sales


100.0%


100.0%




Cost of
products



(75.8)


(66.3)



Gross
margin


24.2


33.7



Selling, general
and administrative expenses


(37.0)


(25.3)




Other income,
net



0.7






(Loss) income
before income tax expense


(12.1)


8.4




Income tax benefit
(expense)



2.9


(3.1)



Net (loss)
income


(9.2)%


5.3%






Fiscal Year 2017 Compared With Fiscal Year 2016



Sales, net


For
2017, net sales totaled approximately $39.4 million, compared with
approximately $50.7 million for 2016. Sales of P-25 digital
products in 2017 totaled approximately $28.7 million (72.7% of
total sales), compared with approximately $33.2 million (65.5% of
total sales) for 2016.


Sales
for the prior year benefited from significant sales to one customer
under our contract with the TSA, which were not fully replicated in
2017, resulting in the year-over-year decrease. Absent the impact
of sales to the TSA, 2017 sales increased approximately 20.9% from
2016. During 2017, demand from other federal, state and
international public safety agencies strengthened compared with the
prior year. We were awarded several multi-year contracts and
blanket purchase orders from federal agencies that we believe will
yield sales in future periods, and we are encouraged by our funnel
of sales prospects. During the year, we added sales resources to
capitalize on opportunities for potential sales growth. However,
the timing and size of orders from government agencies at all
levels can be unpredictable due to the influence of budgets and
other priorities, and we cannot assure investors that any sales
will occur under the blanket purchase orders, or that our sales
prospects will otherwise increase.





20












Cost of Products and Gross Profit Margin


Cost of
products as apercentage of sales for 2017 was 75.8%, compared
with 66.3% in 2016. Gross profit margin as a percentage of sales
for 2017 was 24.2%, compared with 33.7% for 2016.


Our
cost of products and gross profit margin are derived primarily from
material, labor and overhead costs, product mix, manufacturing
volumes and pricing. For 2017, costs associated with the write-off
of specific inventory and higher product service costs also
adversely impacted costs of products and gross profit
margin.


In
2017, the mix of product sales was more heavily weighted toward
lower margin products, and certain products were sold using
promotional pricing designed to drive sales growth. Following
leadership changes, in the third quarter of 2017, we launched a
comprehensive evaluation of our products, markets and strategies
through the remainder of the year. As a result of this evaluation,
we recognized a charge of $3.2 million to write-off inventory with
limited customer market opportunities, primarily due to concerns
regarding technology and production costs. We also incurred
approximately $1.8 million in incremental product costs associated
with addressing customer requests for modification and
upgrades.


Gross
profit margins for the prior year reflected competitive factors
associated with the TSA sales, which comprised a significant
portion of our sales for 2016.


We
continue to utilize contract manufacturing relationships for
production efficiencies and to manage material and labor costs. We
anticipate that our current contract manufacturing relationships or
comparable alternatives will be available to us in the future. We
believe gross margin improvements can be realized by leveraging
increased sales volumes, manufacturing efficiencies and quality. We
may encounter product cost and competitive pricing pressures in the
future. However, the extent of their impact on gross margins, if
any, is uncertain.



Selling, General and Administrative Expenses


SG&A expenses
consist of marketing, sales, commissions, engineering, product
development, management information systems, accounting,
headquarters expenses and non-cash, share-based employee
compensation expense.


For
2017, SG&A expenses totaled approximately $14.6 million, or
37.0% of sales, compared with approximately $12.8million, or
25.3% of sales, for 2016.


Engineering and
product development expenses for 2017 totaled approximately $5.0
million (12.7% of total sales), compared with approximately $4.1
million (8.1% of total sales) for the previous year. Expenses
related to new product development projects were the primary
contributor to the increase in engineering expenses.


Marketing and
selling expenses for 2017 totaled approximately $5.2 million (13.3%
of sales), compared with $5.4 million (10.6% of sales) for the
prior year. The decrease is attributed primarily to decreases in
commissions and incentive compensation directly related to sales
performance, which were partially offset by expenses related to new
sales staff.


General
and administrative expenses for 2017 totaled approximately $4.3
million (11.0% of total sales), compared with approximately $3.3
million (6.5% of total sales) for 2016. The increase was related
primarily to headquarters professional fees and expenses incurred
in the first quarter associated with changes in senior
management.



Operating (Loss) Income


The
operating loss for 2017 totaled approximately $5.0 million (12.8%
of sales), compared with operating income of approximately $4.3
million (8.5% of sales) for 2016. The decrease in operating income
was attributed to several factors, which included a) higher costs
of products, derived in large part from charges associated with the
write-off of inventory, b) product costs related to addressing
customer requested modifications and upgrade, c) engineering
expenses related to new product development, and d) headquarters
professional fees and expenses associated with senior management
changes.





21












Other Income (Expense)



Interest Income (Expense), net


For
2017, we realized interest income of approximately $46,000 on our
cash balances, compared with approximately $9,000 for the prior
year.


We
incurred no interest expense in 2017 or 2016. Interest expense may
be incurred from time to time on outstanding borrowings under our
revolving credit facility. The interest rate on such revolving
credit facility as of December 31, 2017 was 4.00% per annum. This
rate is variable based on the Wall
Street Journal prime rate plus 25 basis points. Effective as
of December 27, 2017, we entered into a seventh amendment to our
Loan and Security Agreement with SVB primarily to extend the
maturity date by approximately a year, to December 26, 2018. Our
revolving credit facility was not utilized during 2017 or
2016.



Gain on Sales of Available-for-Sale Securities


During
the year ended December 31, 2017, we sold 460,546 shares of Iteris,
which generated proceeds of approximately $2.6 million and gains of
approximately $1.8 million. There were no comparable gains recorded
for last year.



Legal Settlement


On
December 19, 2017, we entered into an agreement to settle a dispute
with TSG, a former sales representative (see Note 13 to the
consolidated financial statements). Pursuant to the settlement
agreement, we agreed to pay an amount of $900,000 to TSG on or
before December 31, 2017, which was recorded as an expense in 2017.
We also agreed to pay to TSG commissions, at the rates in effect
since February 7, 2013, on all orders for our products received and
accepted from the states of Arizona, California, Nevada and Hawaii
from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018, excluding (i) sales
to federal government agencies, (ii) sales to other end-users,
excepting state and local government agencies and offices, and
(iii) sales of parts or service, including warranty service. These
commissions were estimated to total approximately $536,000, which
was recorded as an expense in December 2017.



Other Expense


During
2017, we incurred a loss on the disposal of assets related to a
discontinued product initiative. We also recognized an exchange
loss related to sales under a Canadian-dollar-denominated contract.
No comparable expenses were incurred in the prior
year.



Income Tax (Benefit) Expense


We
recorded an income tax benefit for 2017 of approximately $1.2
million, which is net of tax expense of approximately $665,000
derived from the impact of revaluing deferred tax assets in
accordance with the 2017 Tax Act. In connection with our initial
analysis of the impact of the 2017 Tax Act, we have recorded a
discrete net tax expense of $665,000 in the year ended December 31,
2017 to account for the effect of the corporate rate reduction. The
net tax expense primarily relates to a reduction in the deferred
tax assets of approximately $1,524,000 and a reduction in the
deferred tax liability related to unrealized gain on
available-for-sale securities of approximately $(859,000). For the
prior year, we recognized income tax expense of approximately $1.6
million. Our income tax benefit and expense are primarily
non-cash.


As of
December 31, 2017 and 2016, our net deferred tax assets totaled
approximately $3.3 million and $3.4 million, respectively, and are
primarily composed of NOLs, offset by deferred tax liabilities of
$1.9 million and $1.8 million, respectively, primarily derived from
depreciation and the unrealized gain on available-for-sale
securities. The NOLs, as of December 31, 2017, total $6.5
million for federal and $13.9 million for state purposes, with
expirations starting in 2018 through 2037.





22











In
order to fully utilize the net deferred tax assets, we will need to
generate sufficient taxable income in future years to utilize our
NOLs prior to their expiration. The Company analyzes all positive
and negative evidence to determine if, based on the weight of
available evidence, we are more likely than not to realize the
benefit of the net deferred tax assets. The recognition of the net
deferred tax assets and related tax benefits is based upon our
conclusions regarding, among other considerations, estimates of
future earnings based on information currently available and
current and anticipated customers, contracts and product
introductions, as well as historical operating results and tax
planning strategies.


We have
evaluated the available evidence and the likelihood of realizing
the benefit of our net deferred tax assets. Based on our
evaluation, we have concluded that, based on the weight of
available evidence, it is more likely than not that we will not
realize a portion of the benefit of our state net deferred tax
assets recorded at December 31, 2017. Accordingly, we established a
valuation allowance totaling approximately $64,000 for the portion
of state deferred tax assets that more likely than not will not be
realized. We cannot presently estimate what, if any, changes to the
valuation of our deferred tax assets may be deemed appropriate in
the future. If we incur future losses, it may be necessary to
record an additional valuation allowance related to the deferred
tax assets recognized as of December 31, 2017.



Fiscal Year 2016 Compared With Fiscal Year 2015



Sales, net


For
2016, net sales increased 70.5% to approximately $50.7 million,
compared with approximately $29.7 million for 2015. Sales of P-25
digital products in 2016 increased 64.5% to approximately $33.2
million (65.5% of total sales), compared with approximately $20.2
million (68.0% of total sales) for 2015.


The
comparative increase in total sales and sales of digital products
for 2016 was attributed primarily to orders from the TSA. Sales to
customers other than the TSA increased approximately 9.6% in 2016,
compared with the previous year. Key contributors to this growth
included international sales and sales to legacy domestic customers
that were fueled, in part, by wildland fire-suppression
efforts.



Cost of Products and Gross Profit Margin


Cost of
products as apercentage of sales for 2016 was 66.3%, compared
with 58.7% in 2015. Gross profit margin as a percentage of sales
for 2016 was 33.7%, compared with 41.3% for 2015.


Our
cost of products and gross profit margin are derived primarily from
material, labor and overhead costs, product mix, manufacturing
volumes and pricing. The decline in gross profit margins for 2016
compared to the prior year was attributed primarily to competitive
factors associated with the TSA orders, which comprised a
significant portion of our sales for the year. The gross profit
margins realized from our product sales to customers other than TSA
were relatively consistent with the prior year.



Selling, General and Administrative Expenses


SG&A expenses
consist of marketing, sales, commissions, engineering, product
development, management information systems, accounting,
headquarters expenses and non-cash, share-based employee
compensation expense.


For
2016, SG&A expenses totaled approximately $12.8 million, or
25.3% of sales, compared with approximately $10.9million, or
36.5% of sales, for 2015.


Engineering and
product development expenses for 2016 totaled approximately $4.1
million (8.1% of total sales), compared with approximately $3.6
million (12.2% of total sales) for the previous year. Additional
staff-related expenses and new product development projects were
partially offset by decreases in amortization of capitalized
software.


Marketing and
selling expenses for 2016 totaled approximately $5.4 million (10.6%
of sales), compared with $4.2 million (14.1% of sales) for the
prior year. The increase for 2016 was attributed primarily to sales
incentive compensation, which correlates to sales performance,
combined with initiatives to capture more new opportunities and
drive sales growth.





23











General
and administrative expenses for 2016 totaled approximately $3.3
million (6.5% of total sales), compared with approximately $3.0
million (10.2% of total sales) for 2015. The increase for the year
was related primarily to incentive compensation and other
headquarters expenses.



Operating Income


Operating income
for 2016 increased 199.7% to approximately $4.3 million (8.5% of
sales), compared with approximately $1.4 million (4.8% of sales)
for 2015. Increased operating income for the year was primarily the
product of sales growth, which was partially offset by reduced
gross profit margins for the TSA delivery orders.



Interest Income (Expense), net


For
2016, we realized interest income of approximately $9,000 on our
cash balances, compared with approximately $1,000 for the prior
year.


We
incurred no interest expense in 2016 or 2015. Effective as of
December 28, 2016, we entered into a sixth amendment to our Loan
and Security Agreement with SVB primarily to extend the maturity
date by approximately a year, to December 27, 2017, and to reduce
the maximum facility amount to $1 million. Our revolving credit
facility was not utilized during 2016 or 2015.



Income Tax Expense


We
recorded income tax expense for 2016 of approximately $1.6 million,
compared with $345,000 for 2015. Our income tax expense is
primarily non-cash.


As of
December 31, 2016 and 2015, our net deferred tax assets totaled
approximately $3.4 million and $5.5 million, respectively, and are
primarily composed of NOLs, offset by deferred tax liabilities of
$1.8 million and $671,000, respectively, primarily derived from
depreciation and the unrealized gain on available-for-sale
securities. The NOLs, as of December 31, 2016, totaled $1.6
million for federal and $11.9 million for state purposes, with
expirations starting in 2018 through 2030.


We
evaluated the available evidence and the likelihood of realizing
the benefit of our net deferred tax assets. Based on our
evaluation, we concluded that, based on the weight of available
evidence, it was more likely than not that we would not realize a
portion of the benefit of our state net deferred tax assets
recorded at December 31, 2016. Accordingly, we established a
valuation allowance totaling approximately $76,000 for the portion
of state deferred tax assets that more likely than not will not be
realized.


There
was no significant impact on our operations as a result of
inflation for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and
2015.



Liquidity and Capital Resources


For the
year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in operating activities
totaled approximately $2.3 million, compared with cash provided by
operations of approximately $10.7 million for 2016. Cash used in
operating activities was primarily related to net loss, accounts
receivable and deferred tax assets, inventories and accrued
compensation and related taxes, partially offset by accounts
payable, depreciation and amortization and accrued
expenses.





24











For the
year ended December 31, 2017, we realized a net loss of
approximately $3.6 million, compared with net income of
approximately $2.7 million last year. Accounts receivable increased
approximately $2.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2017,
reflecting sales that were consummated later in the year that had
not yet completed their collection cycle, compared with a $657,000
decrease for last year. Deferred tax assets for 2017 increased by
approximately $1.2 million primarily due to our pre-tax loss, and
partially offset by the impact of revaluation derived from tax
reform. For the prior year, deferred tax assets decreased
approximately $1.1 million primarily as a result of pre-tax income.
Net inventories increased during 2017 by approximately $508,000
primarily due to material purchases, which were partially offset by
the write-off of certain inventory items. Last year, inventories
decreased approximately $2.1 million, primarily due to fulfilling
the TSA delivery orders. Accrued compensation and related taxes
decreased by approximately $829,000 during 2017 as performance
incentives were paid. For the same period last year, accrued
compensation and related taxes increased by approximately $1.1
million, related primarily to incentive compensation. Accounts
payable for 2017 increased approximately $4.0 million, primarily
related to material purchases and product development expenses,
compared with a decrease of $312,000 last year. Depreciation and
amortization totaled approximately $942,000 for both 2017 and
2016.


Cash
provided by investing activities for 2017 totaled approximately
$2.0 million, which was primarily related to proceeds totaling
approximately $2.6 million from the sale of securities, partially
offset by purchases of equipment totaling approximately $628,000.
Last year, approximately $481,000 was used for the investment in
Iteris common stock and $1.4 million was utilized for the purchase
of manufacturing and engineering equipment.


During
2017, approximately $3.5 million was used in financing activities,
primarily related to our capital return program, which included
quarterly dividends totaling approximately $3.0 million, compared
with $2.5 million in 2016. We also repurchased stock totaling
approximately $648,000 in 2017, compared with $162,000 for the
prior year. In 2017, we received approximately $183,000 provided by
the issuance of common stock upon the exercise of stock options,
compared with $30,000 last year.


We have
a revolving credit facility with SVB with a maximum borrowing
availability of $1.0 million and a maturity date of December 26,
2018. The Loan and Security Agreement governing the revolving
credit facility contains customary borrowing terms and conditions,
including the accuracy of representations and warranties,
compliance with financial maintenance and restrictive covenants and
the absence of events of default. Pursuant to the Loan and Security
Agreement, the Company is permitted to pay cash dividends, the
total of which may not exceed $5.0 million in the aggregate during
any twelve-month period, so long as an event of default does not
exist at the time of such dividend and would not exist after giving
effect to such dividend. The variable rate at which borrowings
under the credit facility bear interest is the Wall Street Journal prime rate plus 25
basis points.


We were
in compliance with all covenants under the Loan and Security
Agreement and there were no borrowings outstanding under the
revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2017.For
additional information about our revolving credit facility, see
Note 5Debt of the notes to the consolidated
financial statements.


Our
cash and cash equivalents balance at December 31, 2017 was
approximately $7.1 million. We believe these funds, combined
with anticipated cash generated from operations and borrowing
availability under our revolving credit facility, are sufficient to
meet our working capital requirements for the foreseeable future.
However, although we do not anticipate needing additional capital
in the near term, financial and economic conditions could limit our
access to credit and impair our ability to raise capital, if
needed, on acceptable terms or at all. We also face other risks
that could impact our business, liquidity and financial condition.
For a description of these risks, see Part IItem 1A.
Risk Factors in this report.



Off Balance Sheet Arrangements


We do
not have any off balance sheet arrangements.





25












Recent Accounting Pronouncements


In May
2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09 on
Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which provides
for a single, principles-based model for revenue recognition and
replaces the existing revenue recognition guidance. In August 2015,
the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, which delays the effective date of ASU
2014-09 by one year. The guidance is effective for annual and
interim periods beginning on or after December 15, 2017, and will
replace most existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP
when it becomes effective. This ASU requires additional disclosures
about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and
cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant
judgments and estimates and changes in those estimates. It permits
the use of either a retrospective or cumulative effect transition
method. The Company will adopt ASU 2014-09 in the first quarter of
2018 and apply the modified retrospective approach. Because the
Companys primary source of revenues is from shipments of
products, the Company does not expect the impact on its
consolidated financial statements to be material.


In July
2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of
Inventory, to
simplify the guidance on the subsequent measurement of inventory,
excluding inventory measured using last-in, first-out or the retail
inventory method. Under the new standard, inventory should be
stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. The new
accounting guidance is effective for interim and annual periods
beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted.
The Company has adopted the new guidance with no material impact on
its consolidated financial statements and related
disclosures.


In
January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01 Financial
Instruments, which amends the guidance in U.S. GAAP on the
classification and measurement of financial instruments. Changes to
the current guidance primarily affect the accounting for equity
investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and
the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial
instruments. In addition, the ASU clarifies guidance related to the
valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets
resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt
securities. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and
interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and upon
adoption, an entity should apply the amendments by means of a
cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet at the beginning
of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
Early adoption is not permitted except for the provision to record
fair value changes for financial liabilities under the fair value
option resulting from instrument-specific credit risk in other
comprehensive income. On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the
new guidance and, consequently, the Company has recognized
approximately $4.3 million of net unrealized gain in its retained
earnings balance.



In
February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases,
which amends leasing guidance by requiring companies to recognize a
right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all operating and
capital (finance) leases with lease terms greater than twelve
months. The lease liability will be equal to the present value of
lease payments. The lease asset will be based on the lease
liability, subject to adjustment, such as for initial direct costs.
For income statement purposes, leases will continue to be
classified as operating or capital (finance), with lease expense in
both cases calculated substantially the same as under the prior
leasing guidance. The updated guidance is effective for interim and
annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early
adoption permitted. The Company
expects this will result in the recognition of right-of-use assets
and lease liabilities not currently recorded on the consolidated
financial statements under existing accounting guidance, but the
Company is still evaluating all the Companys contractual
arrangements and the impact that adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have
on the Companys consolidated financial
statements.


In
March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Improvements to
Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The guidance is
effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15,
2016 and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early
adoption permitted. The Company has adopted the new guidance with
no material impact on its consolidated financial
statements.


The
Company does not discuss recent pronouncements that are not
anticipated to have an impact on or are unrelated to its financial
condition, results of operations, cash flows or
disclosures.





26












Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates


Our
revenue recognition process and our more subjective accounting
estimation processes affect our reported revenues and current
assets and are, therefore, critical in assessing our financial and
operating status. The processes for determining the allowance for
collection of trade receivables, allowance for excess or obsolete
inventory, allowance for product warranty, software development and
income taxes involve certain assumptions that, if incorrect, could
create an adverse impact on our operations and financial
position.



Revenue


Sales
revenue is recognized when the earnings process is complete and
collection is reasonably assured. The earnings process is generally
complete when the product is shipped by us or delivered to the
customer, depending upon whether the title to the goods, as well as
the risks and benefits of ownership, are transferred to the
customer at point of shipment or point of delivery. However, sales
to the federal government are recognized when the products are
delivered. For extended warranties, sales revenue associated with
the warranty is deferred at the time of sale and later recognized
on a straight-line basis over the extended warranty period. We
periodically review our revenue recognition procedures to assure
that such procedures are in accordance with Accounting Standards
Codification Topic 605, Revenue
Recognition.



Allowance for Doubtful Accounts


The
allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately $50,000 on gross
trade receivables of approximately $5.6million as of December
31, 2017, as compared with $50,000 on gross trade receivables of
approximately $3.5 million as of December 31, 2016. This allowance
is used to state trade receivables at a net realizable value or the
amount that we estimate will be collected on our gross receivables
as of December 31, 2017. Because the amount that we will actually
collect on the receivables outstanding as of December 31, 2017
cannot be known with certainty, we rely on prior experience. Our
historical collection losses have typically been infrequent, with
write-offs of trade receivables being less than 1% of sales during
past years. Accordingly, we have maintained a general allowance of
up to approximately 5% of the gross trade receivables balance in
order to allow for future collection losses that arise from
customer accounts that do not indicate the inability to pay but
turn out to have such an inability. Currently, our general
allowance on trade receivables is approximately 1% of gross
receivables. As revenues and total receivables increase, the
allowance balance may also increase. We also maintain a specific
allowance for customer accounts that we know may not be collectible
due to various reasons, such as bankruptcy and other customer
liquidity issues. We analyze our trade receivables portfolio based
on the age of each customers invoice. In this way, we can
identify those accounts that are more likely than not to have
collection problems. We may reserve a portion or all of the
customers balance. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had
no specific allowance on trade receivables.



Excess and Obsolete Inventory


The
allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventory was approximately
$789,000 and $1.6 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016,
respectively.


The
allowance for slow-moving, excess, or obsolete inventory is used to
state our inventories at the lower of cost or market. Because the
amount of inventory that we will actually recoup through sales
cannot be known with certainty at any particular time, we rely on
past sales experience, future sales forecasts and our strategic
business plans. Generally, in analyzing our inventory levels, we
classify inventory as having been used or unused during the past
year and establish an allowance based upon several factors,
including, but not limited to, business forecasts, inventory
quantities and historical usage profile.


Supplemental to the
aforementioned analysis, specific inventory items are reviewed
individually by management. Based on the review, considering
business levels, future prospects, new products and technology
changes, management, using its business judgment, may adjust the
valuation of specific inventory items to reflect an accurate
valuation. Management also performs a determination of net
realizable value for all finished goods with a selling price below
cost. For all such items, the inventory is valued at not more than
the selling price less cost, if any, to sell.





27












Allowance for Product Warranty


We
offer two-year warranties to our customers depending on the
specific product and terms of the customer purchase agreement. Our
typical warranties require us to repair and replace defective
products during the warranty period at no cost to the customer. At
the time the product revenue is recognized, we record a liability
for estimated costs under our warranties. The costs are estimated
based on historical experience. We periodically assess the adequacy
of our recorded liability for product warranties and adjust the
amount as necessary.



Income Taxes


We
account for income taxes using the asset and liability method.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future
tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and
their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the
period in which the deferred tax asset or liability is expected to
be realized. The effect of changes in net deferred tax assets and
liabilities is recognized on our consolidated balance sheets and
consolidated statements of operations in the period in which the
change is recognized. Valuation allowances are provided to the
extent that it is more likely than not that some portion, or all,
of deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining whether
a tax asset is realizable, we consider, among other things,
estimates of future earnings based on information currently
available, current and anticipated customers, contracts and new
product introductions, as well as recent operating results and
certain tax planning strategies. If we fail to achieve the future
results anticipated in the calculation and valuation of net
deferred tax assets, we may be required to adjust the valuation
allowance related to our deferred tax assets in the
future.



Forward-Looking Statements


We
believe that it is important to communicate our future expectations
to our security holders and to the public. This report, therefore,
contains statements about future events and expectations which are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Sections 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and 21E of the Exchange
Act, including the statements about our plans, objectives,
expectations and prospects under the heading
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations. You can expect to
identify these statements by forward-looking words such as
may, might, could,
would, should, will,
anticipate, believe,
plan, estimate, project,
expect, intend, seek and
other similar expressions. Any statement contained in this report
that is not a statement of historical fact may be deemed to be a
forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements include, but
are not limited to, statements regarding industry trends and
expected impact on us, the impact of general economic conditions,
future product development and the demand for new products,
growth/contraction, general demand, customer spending and resulting
opportunities and challenges, the impact of our strategy, our
dependence on sales to the U.S. Government, the impact from the
loss of key customers, suppliers and manufacturers, our competitive
position, our ability to adapt to technological changes, the
seasonality of the business, the impact of regulatory matters, the
availability of materials and components, the consequences of a
disruption in manufacturing, the consequences of a disruption of
information systems, the impact of maintaining inventory, our
access to capital, our ability to retain our employees, our ability
to adapt to leadership changes, our ability to protect our
intellectual property, adequacy of our insurance and the impact of
natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other catastrophic
events beyond our control.


Although we believe
that the plans, objectives, expectations and prospects reflected in
or suggested by our forward-looking statements are reasonable,
those statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors
that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to
be materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking
statements, and we can give no assurance that our plans,
objectives, expectations and prospects will be
achieved.


Important factors
that might cause our actual results to differ materially from the
results contemplated by the forward-looking statements are
contained in Part IItem 1A. Risk Factors and
elsewhere in this report and in our subsequent filings with the
SEC. We assume no obligation to publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements made in this report, whether as a result
of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or
otherwise, after the date of this report. Readers are cautioned not
to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements.





28











Item
7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk


Not
required for smaller reporting companies.


Item
8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


See
pages F-1 through F-22.






29















REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM



Board of Directors and Stockholders


RELM Wireless Corporation


West Melbourne, Florida



Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements



We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of RELM
Wireless Corporation (the Company) as of
December31, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, comprehensive (loss) income, changes in
stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the years in
the two-year period ended December31, 2017. In our opinion,
the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company as of
December31, 2017 and 2016, and the results of its operations
and its cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period
ended December31, 2017, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.




Basis for Opinion



These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the Companys consolidated financial statements
based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered
with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(PCAOB) and are required to be independent with
respect to the Company in accordance with U.S. federal securities
laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.



We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.
The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to
perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting.
As a part of our audits, we are required to obtain an understanding
of internal control over financial reporting, but not for the
purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Companys internal control over financial reporting.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion.



Our
audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of
material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements,
whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that
respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a
test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the
consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included
evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation
of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.









/s/ Moore Stephens Lovelace, P.A.




We have
served as the Companys auditor since 2015.



Miami,
Florida

March
6, 2018









F-1










RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS


(in thousands, except share data)









December31,








2017




2016




ASSETS



























Current
assets:













Cash and cash
equivalents


$7,147


$10,910



Available-for-sale
securities


9,184






Trade accounts
receivable (net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $50 in 2017
and 2016)


5,524


3,448



Inventories,
net


14,358


13,999



Prepaid expenses
and other current assets


772


1,410



Total current
assets


36,985


29,767



Property, plant and
equipment, net


2,201


2,486



Available-for-sale
securities





6,472



Deferred tax
assets, net


3,317


3,418



Other
assets


298


401



Total
assets


$42,801


$42,544























LIABILITIES
AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY



















Current
liabilities:









Accounts
payable


$5,971


$1,973



Accrued
compensation and related taxes


1,364


2,193



Accrued warranty
expense


1,389


650



Accrued other
expenses and other current liabilities


1,159


169



Dividends
payable


273


1,235



Deferred
revenue


157


142



Total current
liabilities


10,313


6,362



Deferred
revenue


481


408



Total
liabilities


10,794


6,770



Commitments and
contingencies








Stockholders
equity:








Preferred stock;
$1.00 par value; 1,000,000 authorized shares: none issued or
outstanding









Common stock; $.60
par value; 20,000,000 authorized shares:13,844,584 and 13,754,749
issued and outstanding shares at December 31, 2017 and 2016,
respectively


8,307


8,253



Additional paid-in
capital


25,642


25,382



Retained
earnings


(5,450)


240



Accumulated other
comprehensive income


4,318


2,061



Treasury stock, at
cost, 192,094 and 30,422 shares at December 31, 2017 and 2016,
respectively


(810)


(162)



Total
stockholders equity


32,007


35,774



Total liabilities
and stockholders equity


$42,801


$42,544









See notes to consolidated financial statements.


F-2












RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS


(in thousands, except per share data)









Years Ended
December31,








2017




2016




Sales,
net


$39,395


$50,689



Expenses









Cost of
products


29,845


33,612



Selling, general
and administrative


14,577


12,792






44,422


46,404













Operating income
(loss)


(5,027)


4,285



Other income
(expense):









Interest
income


46


9



Gain on sale of
available-for-sale securities


1,833






Legal
settlement


(1,436)






Loss on disposal of
property, plant and equipment


(95)






Other
expense


(106)


(22)



Total other income
(expense)


242


(13)



Income (loss)
before income taxes


(4,785)


4,272



Discrete tax
item-impact of tax reform


(665)






Income tax benefit
(expense)


1,824


(1,583)



Net income
(loss)


$(3,626)


$2,689



Net income (loss)
per share-basic


$(0.27)


$0.20



Net income (loss)
per share-diluted


$(0.27)


$0.19



Weighted average
shares outstanding-basic


13,625


13,735



Weighted average
shares outstanding-diluted


13,625


13,823









See notes to consolidated financial statements.


F-3












RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME


(in thousands, except share and
per share data)









Years Ended
December31,








2017




2016




Net (loss)
income


$(3,626)


$2,689



Unrealized gain on
available-for-sale securities, net of tax


2,257


1,664



Total comprehensive
(loss) income


$(1,369)


$4,353


















See notes to consolidated financial statements.




F-4











RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY


(in thousands, except share data)









Common Stock
Shares




Common Stock
Amount




Additional
Paid-In Capital




Retained
Earnings (Deficit)





Other
Comprehensive
Income





Treasury
Stock




Total




Balance at December
31, 2015


13,730,562


$8,238


$24,926


$1,259


$397


$


$34,820



Common stock
options exercised and issued


24,187


15


15











30



Share-based
compensation expense








49











49



Realized tax
benefit from stock option exercise








392











392



Dividends
declared











(3,708)








(3,708)



Net
income











2,689








2,689



Unrealized gain on
available-for-sale securities














1,664





1,664



Repurchase of
common stock

















(162)


(162)



Balance at December
31, 2016


13,754,749


8,253


25,382


240


2,061


(162)


35,774



Common stock
options exercised and issued


89,835


54


129











183



Share-based
compensation expense








55











55



Restricted stock
unit compensation expense








76











76



Dividends
declared











(2,064)








(2,064)



Net
loss











(3,626)








(3,626)



Unrealized gain on
available-for-sale securities














2,257





2,257



Repurchase of
common stock

















(648)


(648)



Balance at December
31, 2017


13,844,584


$8,307


$25,642


$(5,450)


$4,318


$(810)


$32,007










See notes to consolidated financial statements.


F-5










RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


(in thousands, except share data)









Years Ended
December31,










2017




2016




Operating
activities














Net income
(loss)


$(3,626)


$2,689



Adjustments to
reconcile net income (loss) to net cash (used in) provided
by operating
activities:









Allowance for
doubtful accounts





17



Inventory
allowance


149


180



Deferred tax
expense


(1,163)


1,118



Depreciation and
amortization


942


942



Share-based
compensation expense


55


49



Restricted stock
unit compensation expense


76






Realized tax
benefit from stock option exercise





392



Gain on sale of
available-for-sale securities


(1,833)






Loss on disposal of
property, plant and equipment


95






Changes in
operating assets and liabilities:









Trade accounts
receivable


(2,076)


657



Inventories


(508)


2,103



Prepaid expenses
and other current assets


637


1,671



Other
assets


(20)


(3)



Accounts
payable


3,998


(312)



Accrued
compensation and related taxes


(829)


1,057



Accrued warranty
expense


739


112



Deferred
revenue


88


48



Accrued other
expenses and other current liabilities


990


1



Net
cash (used in) provided by operating activities


(2,286)


10,721













Investing
activities









Purchases of
property, plant and equipment


(628)


(1,394)



Purchase of
available-for-sale securities





(481)



Proceeds from sale
of available-for-sale securities


2,642






Net
cash provided by (used in) investing activities


2,014


(1,875)













Financing
activities









Dividends
paid


(3,026)


(2,473)



Repurchase of
common stock


(648)


(162)



Proceeds from
issuance of common stock


183


30



Net
cash used in financing activities


(3,491)


(2,605)













(Decrease) increase
in cash and cash equivalents


(3,763)


6,241



Cash and cash
equivalents, beginning of year


10,910


4,669



Cash and cash
equivalents, end of year


$7,147


$10,910













Supplemental
disclosure









Cash paid for
income taxes


$


$50













Non-cash
financing activity









Cashless exercise
of stock options and related conversion of net shares to
stockholders equity


$27


$4








See notes to consolidated financial statements.


F-6






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






1.
Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies





Description of Business


The
primary business of RELM Wireless Corporation and its subsidiaries
(collectively, the Company) is the designing,
manufacturing and marketing of wireless communications equipment
consisting primarily of two-way land mobile radios and related
products, which are sold in two primary markets: (1) the government
and public safety market and (2) the business and industrial
market. The Company has only one reportable business
segment.



Principles of Consolidation


The
accounts of the Company have been included in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements. All significant intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.



Inventories


Inventories are
stated at the lower of cost (determined by the average cost method)
or net realizable value. Freight costs are classified as a
component of cost of products in the accompanying consolidated
statements of operations.


The
allowance for slow-moving, excess, or obsolete inventory is used to
state the Companys inventories at the lower of cost or
market. Because the amount of inventory that will actually be
recouped through sales cannot be known with certainty at any
particular time, the Company relies on past sales experience,
future sales forecasts, and its strategic business plans.
Generally, in analyzing inventory levels, inventory is classified
as having been used or unused during the past year. The Company
then establishes a reserve based upon several factors, including,
but not limited to, business forecasts, inventory quantities and
historic usage profile.


Supplemental to the
aforementioned analysis, specific inventory items are reviewed
individually by management. Based on the review, considering
business levels, future prospects, new products and technology
changes, management, using its business judgment, may adjust the
valuation of specific inventory items to reflect an accurate
valuation. Management also performs a determination of net
realizable value for all finished goods with a selling price below
cost. For all such items, the inventory is valued at not more than
the selling price less cost, if any, to sell.



Property, Plant and Equipment


Property, plant and
equipment is carried at cost. Expenditures for maintenance, repairs
and minor renewals are expensed as incurred. When properties are
retired or otherwise disposed of, the related cost and accumulated
depreciation are removed from the respective accounts and the
resulting gain or loss is reflected in operations for the
period.


Depreciation and
amortization are generally computed on the straight-line method
using lives of 3 to 10 years for machinery and equipment and 5 to 6
years for leasehold improvements.



Impairment of Long-Lived Assets


Management
regularly reviews long-lived assets and intangible assets for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future
undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be
recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount
of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets which considers
the discounted future net cash flows. No long-lived assets were
considered impaired at December 31, 2017 and 2016.







F-7






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






1.
Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)





Cash Equivalents


The
Company considers all highly liquid investments with an original
maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.



Allowance for Doubtful Accounts


The
Company records an allowance for doubtful accounts based on
specifically identified amounts that the Company believes to be
uncollectible. The Company also records an additional allowance
based on certain percentages of the Companys aged
receivables, which are determined
based on historical experience and the Companys assessment
of the general financial conditions affecting the Companys
customer base. If the Companys actual collections experience
changes, revisions to the Companys allowance may be
required. After all attempts to collect a receivable have failed,
the receivable is written off against the allowance. Based on the
information available, management believes the allowance for
doubtful accounts as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 is
adequate.



Revenue Recognition


Sales
revenue is recognized when the earnings process is complete and
collection is reasonably assured. The earnings process is generally
complete when the product is shipped or received by the customer,
depending upon whether the title to the goods, as well as the risks
and benefits of ownership, are transferred to the customer at point
of shipment or point of delivery. However, sales to the federal
government are recognized when the products are delivered. For
extended warranties, sales revenue associated with the warranty is
deferred at the time of sale and later recognized on a
straight-line basis over the extended warranty period.


The
Company periodically reviews its revenue recognition procedures to
assure that such procedures are in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(GAAP). Surcharges collected on certain sales to
government customers and remitted to governmental agencies are not
included in revenues or in costs and expenses.



Income Taxes


The
Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability
method specified by GAAP. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted
tax rates expected to apply in the period in which the deferred tax
asset or liability is expected to be realized. The effect of
changes in net deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized on
the Companys consolidated balance sheets and consolidated
statements of operations in the period in which the change is
recognized. Valuation allowances are provided to the extent that
impairment of tax assets are more likely than not. In determining
whether a tax asset is realizable, the Company considers, among
other things, estimates of future earnings based on information
currently available, current and anticipated customers, contracts
and new product introductions, as well as recent operating results
during 2017 and 2016 and certain tax planning strategies. If the
Company fails to achieve the future results anticipated in the
calculation and valuation of net deferred tax assets, the Company
may be required to adjust the valuation allowance related to its
deferred tax assets in the future.









F-8






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






1.
Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)




On
December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax
legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the
2017 Tax Act). The 2017 Tax Act makes broad and
complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited
to, (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to
21%; (2) eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax
(AMT) and changing how existing AMT credits can be
realized; and (3) changing rules related to uses and limitations of
net operating loss carryforwards created in tax years beginning
after December 31, 2017.


In
connection with the Companys initial analysis of the impact
of the 2017 Tax Act, the Company has recorded a discrete net tax
expense of $665 in the year ended December 31, 2017 for the effect
of the corporate rate reduction. The net tax expense primarily
relates to a reduction in the deferred tax assets of $1,524 and a
reduction in the deferred tax liability related to unrealized gain
on available-for-sale securities of $(859).



Concentration of Credit Risk


The
Company performs periodic credit evaluations of its
customers financial condition and generally does not require
collateral. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, accounts receivable from
governmental customers were approximately $2,663 and $1,090,
respectively. Generally, receivables are due within 30 days. Credit
losses relating to customers have been consistently within
managements expectations.


The
Company primarily maintains cash balances at one financial
institution. Accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC) up to $250. From time to time, the
Company has had cash in financial institutions in excess of
federally insured limits. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had
cash and cash equivalents in excess of FDIC limits of
$7,053.



Manufacturing and Raw Materials


The
Company relies upon a limited number of manufacturers to produce
its products and on a limited number of component suppliers. Some
of these manufacturers and suppliers are in other countries.
Approximately 65.7% of the Companys material, subassembly
and product procurements in 2017 were sourced internationally, of
which approximately 61.6% were sourced from three suppliers. For
2016, approximately 76.3% of the Companys material,
subassembly and product procurements were sourced internationally,
of which approximately 70% were sourced from three suppliers.
Purchase orders denominated in U.S. dollars are placed with these
suppliers from time to time and there are no guaranteed supply
arrangements or commitments.



Use of Estimates


The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the
consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of sales
and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates
include accounts receivable allowances, inventory obsolescence
allowance, warranty allowance, capitalized software costs and
income tax accruals. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.



Fair Value of Financial Instruments


The
Companys financial instruments consist of cash and cash
equivalents, trade accounts receivable, available-for-sale
securities, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other
liabilities. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the carrying amount
of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, accounts
payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities approximated their
respective fair value due to the short-term nature and maturity of
these instruments. The Company uses observable market data or
assumptions (Level 1 inputs, as defined in accounting guidance)
that it believes market participants would use in pricing the
available-for-sale securities. There
were no sales of available-for-sale securities, nor gains or losses
reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income as a
result of an other-than-temporary impairment of the
available-for-sale securities. There were no transfers of
available-for-sale securities between Level 1 and Level 2 during
the year ended December 31, 2017.







F-9






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






1.
Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)





Available-For-Sale Securities


Investments
reported on the December 31, 2017 and 2016 consolidated balance
sheets consist of marketable equity securities of a publicly held
company. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the investment cost was
$2,402 and $3,242, respectively. Management intends to hold such
securities for a sufficient period in which to realize a reasonable
return, which periods may range between one to several years,
although there is no assurance that positive returns will be
realized or that such securities will not be liquidated in a
shorter-than-expected time frame to accommodate future liquidity
requirements. For year ended December 31, 2017, investments were
classified as current and available-for-sale. Investments are
marked to market at each measurement date, with unrealized gains or
losses presented as adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive
income or loss.



Shipping and Handling Costs


Shipping and
handling costs are classified as a part of cost of products in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the years
ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Amounts billed to a customer, if
any, for shipping and handling are reported as a
revenue.



Advertising and Promotion Costs


The
cost for advertising and promotion is expensed as incurred.
Advertising and promotion expenses are classified as part of
selling, general and administrative (SG&A)
expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, such expenses
totaled $424 and $334, respectively.



Engineering, Research and Development Costs


Included in
SG&A expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016
are engineering, research and development costs of $5,000 and
$4,123, respectively.



Share-Based Compensation


The
Company accounts for share-based arrangements in accordance with
GAAP, which requires a public entity to measure the cost of
employee services received in exchange for an award of equity
instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award (with
limited exceptions). That cost will be recognized over the period
during which the employee is required to provide service in
exchange for the award requisite service period (usually the
vesting period). No compensation cost is recognized for equity
instruments for which employees do not render the requisite
service. Employee share purchase plans will not result in
recognition of compensation cost if certain conditions are
met.



Restricted Stock Units


On June
15, 2017, the Company granted to each non-employee director
restricted stock units (RSUs) with a grant fair value
of $20 per award, which will vest in full on June 15, 2018, subject
to continued service through such vesting date.



Earnings Per Share


Earnings per share
amounts are computed and presented for all periods in accordance
with GAAP.



Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)


Other
comprehensive income (loss) consists of net income (loss) and
unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities, net of
taxes.







F-10






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






1.
Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)





Product Warranty


The
Company offers two-year warranties to its customers, depending on
the specific product and terms of the customer purchase agreement.
The Companys typical warranties require it to repair and
replace defective products during the warranty period at no cost to
the customer. At the time the product revenue is recognized, the
Company records a liability for estimated costs under its
warranties. The costs are estimated based on historical experience.
The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of its recorded
liability for product warranties and adjusts the amount as
necessary.



Reclassifications


Certain
prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current
year presentation. These reclassifications had no impact on
previously reported net income for the year ended December 31,
2016.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements


In May 2014,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09 on
Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which provides
for a single, principles-based model for revenue recognition and
replaces the existing revenue recognition guidance. In August 2015,
the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, which delays the effective date of ASU
2014-09 by one year. The guidance is effective for annual and
interim periods beginning on or after December 15, 2017, and will
replace most existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP
when it becomes effective. This ASU requires additional disclosures
about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and
cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant
judgments and estimates and changes in those estimates. It permits
the use of either a retrospective or cumulative effect transition
method. The Company will adopt ASU 2014-09 in the first quarter of
2018 and apply the modified retrospective approach. Because the
Companys primary source of revenues is from shipments of
products, the Company does not expect the impact on its
consolidated financial statements to be material.


In July
2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of
Inventory, to
simplify the guidance on the subsequent measurement of inventory,
excluding inventory measured using last-in, first-out or the retail
inventory method. Under the new standard, inventory should be
stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. The new
accounting guidance is effective for interim and annual periods
beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted.
The Company has adopted the new guidance with no material impact on
its consolidated financial statements and related
disclosures.


In
January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01 Financial
Instruments, which amends the guidance in U.S. GAAP on the
classification and measurement of financial instruments. Changes to
the current guidance primarily affect the accounting for equity
investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and
the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial
instruments. In addition, the ASU clarifies guidance related to the
valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets
resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt
securities. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and
interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and upon
adoption, an entity should apply the amendments by means of a
cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet at the beginning
of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
Early adoption is not permitted except for the provision to record
fair value changes for financial liabilities under the fair value
option resulting from instrument-specific credit risk in other
comprehensive income. On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the
new guidance and, consequently, the Company has recognized
approximately $4,300 of net unrealized gain in its retained
earnings balance.







F-11






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






1.
Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)




In
February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases,
which amends leasing guidance by requiring companies to recognize a
right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all operating and
capital (finance) leases with lease terms greater than twelve
months. The lease liability will be equal to the present value of
lease payments. The lease asset will be based on the lease
liability, subject to adjustment, such as for initial direct costs.
For income statement purposes, leases will continue to be
classified as operating or capital (finance), with lease expense in
both cases calculated substantially the same as under the prior
leasing guidance. The updated guidance is effective for interim and
annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early
adoption permitted. The Company
expects this will result in the recognition of right-of-use assets
and lease liabilities not currently recorded on the consolidated
financial statements under existing accounting guidance, but the
Company is still evaluating all the Companys contractual
arrangements and the impact that adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have
on the Companys consolidated financial
statements.


In
March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Improvements to
Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The guidance is
effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15,
2016 and interim periods within those fiscal years with early
adoption permitted. The Company has adopted the new guidance with
no material impact on its consolidated financial
statements.


The
Company does not discuss recent pronouncements that are not
anticipated to have an impact on or are unrelated to its financial
condition, results of operations, cash flows or
disclosures.



2.
Inventories,
net




Inventories, which
are presented net of allowance for obsolete and slow-moving
inventory, consisted of the following:









December31,








2017




2016


















Finished
goods


$2,825


$3,216



Work in
process


7,111


6,612





Raw
materials




4,422


4,171







$14,358


$13,999






Changes
in the allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventory are as
follows:









Years Ended
December31,








2017




2016


















Balance, beginning
of year


$1,607


$1,685



Charged to cost of
sales


149


180



Disposal of
inventory


(967)


(258)



Balance, end of
year


$789


$1,607





Following
leadership changes, in the third quarter of 2017, the Company
launched a comprehensive evaluation of its products, markets and
strategies through the remainder of the year. As a result of this
evaluation, the Company recognized a direct charge to cost of
products of $3,200 to write-off inventory with limited customer
market opportunities, primarily due to concerns regarding
technology and production costs.


For the
years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, the Company wrote off
obsolete inventory that had been fully allowed for previously,
which had no material impact to the Companys consolidated
balance sheets or consolidated statements of
operations.







F-12






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






3.
Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts




Changes
in the allowance for doubtful accounts are composed of the
following:









Years Ended
December31,








2017




2016




Balance, beginning
of year


$50


$49



Provision for
doubtful accounts





17



Uncollectible
accounts written off





(16)



Balance, end of
year


$50


$50






4.
Property,
Plant and Equipment, net




Property, plant and
equipment, net include the following:









December31,








2017




2016




Leasehold
improvements


$422


$392



Machinery and
equipment


8,970


8,548



Less accumulated
depreciation and amortization


(7,191)


(6,454)



Property, plant and
equipment, net


$2,201


$2,486





Depreciation and
amortization expense relating to property, plant and equipment for
the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was approximately $808
and $748, respectively.



5.
Debt




The
Company has a revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank
with a maximum borrowing availability of $1,000 and a maturity date
of December 26, 2018. The Loan and Security Agreement governing the
revolving credit facility contains customary borrowing terms and
conditions, including the accuracy of representations and
warranties, compliance with financial maintenance and restrictive
covenants and the absence of events of default. Pursuant to the
Loan and Security Agreement, the Company is permitted to pay cash
dividends, the total of which may not exceed $5,000 in the
aggregate during any twelve-month period, so long as an event of
default does not exist at the time of such dividend and would not
exist after giving effect to such dividend. The variable rate at
which borrowings under the credit facility bear interest is the
Wall Street Journal prime
rate plus 25 basis points.


The
financial maintenance covenants, required to be maintained at all
times and tested quarterly (or, for the quick ratio
covenant, monthly, if any obligations are outstanding), include:
(1) a ratio of quick assets to current liabilities
minus deferred revenue (all as defined in the Loan
and Security Agreement) of at least 1.25:1.00 and (2)
maximum total leverage (as defined in the Loan and
Security Agreement) of no greater total indebtedness than 3 times
adjusted EBITDA. The Companys obligations are collateralized
by substantially all of the Companys assets, principally
accounts receivable and inventory.


The
Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Loan and
Security Agreement as of December 31, 2017. The Company had no
borrowings outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31,
2017, and $1,000 was available for borrowing.



6.
Investment
in Securities




As
of December 31, 2017, the Company, through its wholly-owned
subsidiary, held approximately 1.3 million shares of Iteris, Inc.
(Nasdaq: ITI) (Iteris). At December 31, 2017,
the corresponding unrealized gain of approximately $2,257, net of
tax of $2,428, is included in accumulated other comprehensive
income as a separate component of stockholders equity.
There was no impact to the Companys consolidated statements
of operations.







F-13






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






6.
Investment
in Securities (Continued)




On
July 29, 2016, the Company, one of the Companys significant
stockholders, and certain of their affiliates entered into an
agreement with Iteris. Pursuant to the agreement, a Director of the
Company, who is an executive, co-founder and partner of the
significant stockholder that is party to the agreement, was
appointed to the Board of Directors of Iteris.


The
significant stockholder of the Company did not stand for
re-election to the Iteris Board of Directors. As of November 8,
2017, the date of Iteris annual meeting of stockholders, the
significant stockholder of the Company was no longer a member of
the Iteris Board of Directors.



7.
Leases




The
Company leases approximately 54,000 square feet of industrial space
in West Melbourne, Florida, under a non-cancellable operating
lease. The lease has the expiration date of June30, 2020.
Rental, maintenance and tax expenses for this facility were
approximately $472 and $475 in 2017 and 2016, respectively. The
Company also leases 8,100 square feet of office space in Lawrence,
Kansas, under a non-cancellable operating lease, to accommodate a
portion of the Companys engineering team. The lease has the
expiration date of December 31, 2019. Rental, maintenance and tax
expenses for this facility were approximately $108 in 2017 and
2016.


The
following table summarizes future minimum rental payments under
these leases as of December 31, 2017:





2018


$577



2019


577



2020


234



Thereafter









$1,388











F-14






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






8.
Income
Taxes




The
income tax expense is summarized as follows:









Years Ended
December31,








2017




2016




Current:













Federal


$(11)


$61



State


10


11






(1)


72



Deferred:









Federal


(1,780)


1,296



State


(43)


215



Impact of rate
change


665









(1,158)


1,511






$(1,159)


$1,583





A
reconciliation of the statutory U.S. income tax rate to the
effective income tax rate follows:









Years Ended
December31,








2017




2016




Statutory U.S.
income tax rate


(34.00)%


34.00%



State taxes, net of
federal benefit


(1.37)%


2.33%



Non-deductible
items


0.52%


0.54%



Change in valuation
allowance


(0.25)%


1.78%



Change in net
operating loss carryforwards and tax credits


(3.27)%


(1.65)%



Other


0.25%


0.13%



Effective income
tax rate


(38.12)%


37.13%











F-15






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






8.
Income
Taxes (Continued)




The
components of the deferred income tax assets (liabilities) are as
follows:









Years Ended
December 31,








2017




2016




Deferred tax
assets:













Operating
loss carryforwards


$1,874


$1,035



R&D
Tax Credit


1,478


1,310



AMT Tax
Credit


352


364



Section
263A costs


315


502



R&D
costs


335


690



Amortization


24


34













Asset
reserves:









Bad
debts


12


18



Inventory
allowance


182


574













Accrued
expenses:









Non-qualified
stock options


86


86



Compensation


165


261



Warranty


465


415



Deferred tax
assets


5,288


5,289













Less state
valuation allowance


(64)


(76)



Total deferred tax
assets


5,224


5,213













Deferred tax
liabilities:









Depreciation


(338)


(626)



Total deferred tax
liabilities


(338)


(626)













Net deferred tax
assets (before unrealized gain)


4,886


4,587













Deferred tax
liability: unrealized gain


(1,569)


(1,169)



Net deferred tax
assets


$3,317


$3,418





As of
December 31, 2017, the Company had a net deferred tax asset of
approximately $4,886 offset by deferred tax liabilities of $1,569
derived from the unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities.
This asset is primarily composed of net operating loss
carryforwards (NOLs), research and development costs,
and an allowance for inventory. The NOLs total $6,478 for federal
and $13,949 for state purposes, with expirations starting in 2018
for state purposes.


During
2016, the Company utilized $2,954, adjusted to final tax return, of
its NOLs and during 2017, the Company generated $4,654 of
additional NOLs. The deferred tax asset amounts are based upon
managements conclusions regarding, among other
considerations, the Companys current and anticipated
customer base, contracts, and product introductions, certain tax
planning strategies, and managements estimates of future
earnings based on information currently available, as well as
recent operating results during 2017, 2016, and 2015. GAAP requires
that all positive and negative evidence be analyzed to determine
if, based on the weight of available evidence, the Company is more
likely than not to realize the benefit of the deferred tax
asset.








F-16






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






8.
Income
Taxes (Continued)




Managements
analysis of all available evidence, both positive and negative,
provides support that the Company does not have the ability to
generate sufficient taxable income in the necessary period to
utilize the entire benefit for the deferred tax asset. Management
asserts that it is more likely than not that approximately $64 of
the Companys deferred tax asset will not be realized due to
the inability to generate sufficient Florida taxable income in the
necessary period to fully utilize its Florida NOLs.


Should
the factors underlying managements analysis change, future
valuation adjustments to the Companys net deferred tax asset
may be necessary. If future losses are incurred, it may be
necessary to record an additional valuation allowance related to
the Companys net deferred tax asset recorded as of December
31, 2017. It cannot presently be estimated what, if any, changes to
the valuation of the Companys deferred tax asset may be
deemed appropriate in the future. The 2017 federal and state NOL
and tax credit carryforwards could be subject to limitation if,
within any three-year period prior to the expiration of the
applicable carryforward period, there is a greater than 50% change
in ownership of the Company.


For the
years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company incurred $49
and $61, respectively, in alternative minimum tax expense in
connection with the federal limitation on alternative tax net
operating loss carryforwards. No alternative minimum tax expense is
expected in 2017 due to the NOLs generated.


The
Company performed a comprehensive review of its portfolio of
uncertain tax positions in accordance with recognition standards
established by GAAP. In this regard, an uncertain tax position
represents the Companys expected treatment of a tax position
taken in a filed tax return or planned to be taken in a future tax
return that has not been reflected in measuring income tax expense
for financial reporting purposes. As a result of this review, on
January 1, 2018, the Company is not aware of any uncertain tax
positions that would require additional liabilities or which such
classification would be required. The amount of unrecognized tax
positions did not change as of December 31, 2017 and the Company
does not believe there will be any material changes in its
unrecognized tax positions over the next twelve
months.


Penalties and
tax-related interest expense, of which there were no material
amounts for the year ended December 31, 2017, are reported as a
component of income tax expense (benefit).


The
Company files federal income tax returns, as well as multiple state
and local jurisdiction tax returns. A number of years may elapse
before an uncertain tax position is audited and finally resolved.
While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the
timing of resolution on any particular uncertain tax position, the
Company believes that its allowances for income taxes reflect the
most probable outcome. The Company adjusts these allowances, as
well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and
circumstances. The resolution of a matter would be recognized as an
adjustment to the provision for income taxes and the effective tax
rate in the period of resolution. The calendar years 2014, 2015,
and 2016 are still open to IRS examination under the statute of
limitations. The last IRS examination on the Companys 2007
calendar year was closed with no change.







F-17






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






9.
Income
Per Share




The
following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted
income per share:









Years Ended
December31,








2017




2016




Numerator:













Net
(loss) income from continuing operations numerator for basic and
diluted earnings per share


$(3,626)


$2,689



Denominator:









Denominator
for basic earnings per share weighted average shares


13,624,649


13,734,873



Effect
of dilutive securities:









Stock
options





88,118



Denominator
for diluted earnings per share weighted average shares


13,624,649


13,822,991



Basic
income per share


$(0.27)


$0.20



Diluted
income per share


$(0.27)


$0.19





Approximately
354,500 stock options and 21,201 RSUs for the year ended December
31, 2017 and 90,000 stock options and zero RSUs for the year ended
December 31, 2016, were excluded from the calculation because they
were anti-dilutive.



10.
Share-Based
Employee Compensation




The
Company has an employee and non-employee director incentive
compensation equity plan. Related to these programs, the Company
recorded $55 and $49 of share-based employee compensation expense
during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively,
which is included as a component of cost of products and SG&A
expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
No amount of share-based employee compensation expense was
capitalized as part of capital expenditures or inventory for the
years presented.


The
Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton option valuation model to
calculate the fair value of a stock option grant. The share-based
employee compensation expense recorded in the years ended December
31, 2017 and 2016 was calculated using the assumptions noted in the
following table. Expected volatilities are based on the historical
volatility of the Companys common stock over the period of
time commensurate with the expected life of the stock options. The
dividend yield assumption is based on the Companys
expectations of dividend payouts at the grant date. In 2017, the
Company paid dividends on January 13, for a dividend declared in
2016, April 17, July 17 and October 16. In 2017, the
Companys board of directors also declared a quarterly
dividend that was paid on January 16, 2018. The Company has
estimated its future stock option exercises. The expected term of
option grants is based upon the observed and expected time to the
date of post vesting exercises and forfeitures of options by the
Companys employees. The risk-free interest rate is derived
from the average U.S. Treasury rate for the period, which
approximates the rate at the time of the stock option
grant.









FY
2017




FY
2016




Expected
Volatility


53.6%


60.7%



Expected
Dividends


5.0%


2.0%



Expected Term (in
years)


3.0-6.5


3.0-6.5



Risk-Free
Rate


2.10%


1.35%



Estimated
Forfeitures


0.0%


0.0%











F-18






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






10.
Share-Based
Employee Compensation (Continued)




A
summary of stock option activity under the Companys equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2017, and changes during the
year ended December 31, 2017, are presented below:





As
of January1, 2017



Stock
Options





Wgt.
Avg.
Exercise
Price
($)
Per
Share






Wgt.
Avg.
Remaining
Contractual
Life
(Years)






Wgt
Avg.
Grant
Date
Fair Value
($)
Per
Share






Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value
($)





Outstanding


311,000


3.48





1.96






Vested


231,000


3.30





1.97






Nonvested


80,000


4.01





1.93

























Period
activity


















Issued


248,500


4.84





1.54






Exercised


125,000


2.88





1.62






Forfeited


80,000


4.31





1.95






Expired





































As
of December 31, 2017


















Outstanding


354,500


4.46


7.35


1.79


34,660



Vested


113,000


3.75


3.15


2.23


34,660



Nonvested


241,500


4.80


9.31


1.58









Outstanding:









Range
ofExercise
Prices ($) Per Share




Stock
Options

Outstanding





Wgt.
Avg.

Exercise

Price ($)
Per

Share





Wgt.
Avg.

Remaining

Contractual

Life
(Years)















1.89




3.83





36,000






2.67






5.91















4.07




5.10





318,500






4.67






7.51
























354,500






4.46






7.35














Exercisable:










Range ofExercise
Prices ($) Per Share 






Stock

Options

Exercisable








Wgt.
Avg.

Exercise

Price ($)

















 


1.89




  3.83





  28,000






  2.33















 


4.07





  5.10





  85,000






  4.21















   







   





  113,000






  3.75















The
weighted-average grant-date fair value per option granted during
the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $1.58 and $1.93,
respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options
exercised during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was
approximately $107 and $82, respectively.


In
connection with the restricted stock units granted to non-employee
directors, the Company accrues compensation expense based on the
estimated number of shares expected to be issued utilizing the most
current information available to the Company at the date of the
financial statements. The Company estimates the fair value of the
restricted stock unit awards based upon the market price of the
underlying common stock on the date of grant.







F-19






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






11.
Significant
Customers




Sales
to the U.S. Government represented approximately 38% and 58% of the
Companys total sales for the years ended December 31, 2017
and 2016, respectively. These sales were primarily to the various
government agencies, including those within the United States
Department of Defense, the United States Forest Service, the United
States Department of Interior, and the United States Department of
Homeland Security.



12.
Retirement
Plan




The
Company sponsors a participant contributory retirement (401(k))
plan, which is available to all employees. The Companys
contribution to the plan is either apercentage of the
participants contribution (50% of the participants
contribution up to a maximum of 6%) or a discretionary amount. For
the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, total contributions
made by the Company were $136 and $121, respectively.



13.
Commitments
and Contingencies





Royalty Commitment


In
2002, the Company entered into a technology license related to its
development of digital products. Under this agreement, the Company
is obligated to pay a royalty for each product sold that utilizes
the technology covered by this agreement. The Company paid $136 and
$243 for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The agreement has an indefinite term, and can be terminated by
either party under certain conditions.



Purchase Commitments


The
Company has purchase commitments for inventory totaling $12,376 as
of December 31, 2017.



Self-Insured Health Benefits


The
Company maintains a self-insured health benefit plan for its
employees. This plan is administered by a third party. As of
December 31, 2017, the plan had a stop-loss provision insuring
losses beyond $80 per employee per year and an aggregate stop-loss
of $1,397. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company recorded
an accrual for estimated claims in the amount of approximately $113
and $172, respectively, in accrued other expenses and other current
liabilities on the Companys consolidated balance
sheets. This amount
represents the Companys estimate of incurred but not
reported claims as of December 31, 2017 and 2016.



Liability for Product Warranties


Changes
in the Companys liability for its standard two-year product
warranties during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as
follows:









Balance at
Beginning of Year




Warranties
Issued




Warranties
Settled




Balance at End
of Year




2017


$650


$1,945


$(1,206)


$1,389



2016


$538


$709


$(597)


$650











F-20






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






13.
Commitments
and Contingencies (Continued)





Legal Proceedings


From
time to time the Company may be involved in various claims and
legal actions arising in the ordinary course of its
business.



On
March 28, 2017, The Sales Group, Inc. (TSG) filed a
lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of
California against the Company. TSG was a sales representative of
the Company that the Company terminated in March 2017. TSG asserted
claims against the Company for alleged breach of oral contract,
violation of the California and Arizona sales representative
statutes, and an accounting of alleged unpaid sales commissions.
TSGs complaint sought damages in the amount of $6,090 for
alleged unpaid past and future sales commissions. On April 3, 2017,
counsel for TSG sent the Company a letter outlining additional
alleged grounds for recovery against the Company and offering to
settle the litigation in exchange for the continued payment of
sales commissions to TSG for a negotiated period, a buyout of
TSGs alleged rights for a negotiated sum or reinstatement of
TSG for a period of at least 2.5 years with commission rates equal
to those in effect at the time of TSGs termination. The
matter was mediated on November 14, 2017, during which the parties
agreed to a settlement. On December 19, 2017, the Company entered
into a settlement agreement with TSG, pursuant to which TSG agreed
to dismiss with prejudice its lawsuit filed against the Company.
Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the Company agreed to pay an
amount of $900 to TSG on or before December 31, 2017. The Company
also agreed to pay to TSG commissions, at the rates in effect since
February 7, 2013, on all orders for the Companys products
received and accepted by the Company from the states of Arizona,
California, Nevada and Hawaii from January 1, 2018 through December
31, 2018, other than for (i) sales of the Companys products
to federal government agencies and offices, (ii) sales of the
Companys products to other end-users, excepting state and
local government agencies and offices, and (iii) sales of parts or
service, including warranty service. These commissions were
estimated to total approximately $536, which was recorded as an
expense in December 2017. In addition, if at any time on or before
December 31, 2018, the Company completes a change-in-control
transaction, then the Company will pay to TSG an amount equal to
$2,000, less the amount of commissions paid by the Company with
respect to 2018, as described above. The settlement agreement
settles all claims raised by TSG in its lawsuit against the
Company.


There
were no other pending material claims or legal matters as of
December 31, 2017.



14.
Capital
Program




In May
2016, the Company implemented a capital return program that
included a stock repurchase program and a quarterly dividend.
Under the program, the Companys Board of Directors approved
the repurchase of up to 500,000 shares of the Companys
common stock pursuant to a stock repurchase plan in conformity with
the provisions of Rule 10b5-1 and Rule 10b-18 promulgated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Pursuant to the
program, the Companys Board of Directors approved three
quarterly dividends of $0.09 per share of the Companys
common stock. The dividends were paid on June 17, 2016,
September 16, 2016 and January 13, 2017 to shareholders of record
as of June 1, 2016, September 1, 2016 and January 3, 2017,
respectively.


In June
2017, the Board of Directors approved the increase in the
Companys capital return program, authorizing the repurchase
of 500,000 shares of the Companys common stock in addition
to the 500,000 shares originally authorized, for a total repurchase
authorization of 1 million shares, pursuant to a stock repurchase
plan in conformity with the provisions of Rule 10b5-1 and Rule
10b-18 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. The repurchase program has no termination date. Pursuant
to the capital return program, during 2017, the Companys
Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends on the
Companys common stock of $0.09 per share on March 17, and
$0.02 per share on June 14, September 18 and December 6. The
dividends were payable to shareholders of record as of March 31,
2017, June 30, 2017, October 2, 2017 and January 2, 2018,
respectively. These dividends were paid on April 17, 2017, July 17,
2017, October 16, 2017 and January 16, 2018.







F-21






RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION


YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(in thousands, except share data and percentages)






15.
Subsequent
Event




On
January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-1 Financial
Instruments, which amended the guidance in U.S. GAAP on the
classification and measurement of financial instruments. Changes to
the prior guidance primarily affected the accounting for equity
investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and
the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial
instruments. In addition, the ASU clarified guidance related to the
valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets
resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt
securities. Upon its adoption, the Company applied the amendments
by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet at
the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance
was effective. On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the new
guidance and, consequently, the Company recognized approximately
$4,300 of net unrealized gain in its retained earnings balance.
During January and February 2018, the Company sold 1,317,503 shares
of Iteris, which cost $2,398, for approximately $8,334 of proceeds
and will report a loss on the sales of approximately
$708.







F-22











Item
9.Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure


None.


Item
9A.Controls and Procedures



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures


Our
President (who serves as our principal executive officer) and Chief
Financial Officer (who serves as our principal financial and
accounting officer) have evaluated the effectiveness of our
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of December 31, 2017. Based on
that evaluation, the President and Chief Financial Officer have
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of December 31, 2017.



Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting


Our
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined
in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our internal
control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes, in
accordance U.S. GAAP. Because of inherent limitations, a system of
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate due to a change in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.


An
internal control material weakness is a significant deficiency, or
combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than
a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the financial
statements will not be prevented or detected.


Our
management, including our principal executive officer and principal
financial officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2017, and concluded that our internal controls over financial
reporting were effective as of December 31, 2017. In making the
assessment of internal control over financial reporting, management
used the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO).



Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting


There
were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting
identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph
(d) of Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 that occurred during the
fourth fiscal quarter covered by this report that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.


Item
9B.Other Information


None.





30















PART III


Item
10.Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance


Information about
our Directors and Executive Officers will be contained in the
Proposal 1: Election of Directors and
Corporate GovernanceBoard of Directors
Independence sections of RELMs definitive proxy
statement, to be filed in connection with RELMs 2018 annual
meeting of stockholders, and is incorporated herein by
reference.


The
disclosure of delinquent filers under Section 16(a) of the Exchange
Act will be contained in the MiscellaneousSection
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance section of
RELMs definitive proxy statement, to be filed in connection
with RELMs 2018 annual meeting of stockholders, and is
incorporated herein by reference.


We have
a separately-designated standing audit committee. Information about
our audit committee and the audit committee financial expert will
be contained in the Corporate GovernanceMeetings and
Committees of the Board of Directors section of RELMs
definitive proxy statement, to be filed in connection with
RELMs 2018 annual meeting of stockholders, and is
incorporated herein by reference.


We have
adopted the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code of
Conduct) that applies to all of our directors, officers and
employees, including our principal executive officer, principal
financial officer and principal accounting officer, and the Code of
Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers (the Code
of Ethics) containing additional specific policies. The Code
of Conduct and the Code of Ethics are posted on our Internet
website, www.bktechnologies.com, under the Investor
tab, and are available free of charge, upon request to Corporate
Secretary, 7100 Technology Drive, West Melbourne, Florida 32904;
telephone number: (321) 984-1414. Any amendment to, or waiver from,
the codes applicable to our directors and executive officers will
be disclosed in a current report on Form 8-K within four business
days following the date of the amendment or waiver unless the rules
of the NYSE American then permit website posting of such amendments
and waivers, in which case we would post such disclosures on our
Internet website.


Item
11.Executive Compensation


The
information required by this item will be contained in the
Director Compensation for 2017, Summary
Compensation Table for 2016-2017, Outstanding Equity
Awards at Fiscal Year-End for 2017, Retirement
Benefits for 2017, Potential Payments Upon
Termination in Connection With a Change of Control,
Director Compensation for 2017 and Corporate
GovernanceMeetings and Committees of the Board of
DirectorsCompensation Committee sections of
RELMs definitive proxy statement, to be filed in connection
with RELMs 2018 annual meeting of stockholders, and is
incorporated herein by reference.


Item
12.Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters


The
information required by this item will be contained in the
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Equity Compensation Plan
Information sections of RELMs definitive proxy
statement, to be filed in connection with RELMs 2018 annual
meeting of stockholders, and is incorporated herein by
reference.


Item
13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
Director Independence


The
information required by this item will be contained in the
Transactions with Related Persons and
Corporate GovernanceBoard of Directors
Independence sections of RELMs definitive proxy
statement, to be filed in connection with RELMs 2018 annual
meeting of stockholders, and is incorporated herein by
reference.


Item
14.Principal Accounting Fees and Services


The
information required by this item will be contained in the
Fees Paid to Our Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm and Corporate GovernanceMeetings and
Committees of the Board of DirectorsAudit Committee
sections of RELMs definitive proxy statement, to be filed in
connection with RELMs 2018 annual meeting of stockholders,
and is incorporated herein by reference.





31















PART IV


Item
15.Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules



(a)
The following
documents are filed as a part of this report:









1. Consolidated Financial Statements listed below:



Page




Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm



F-1












Consolidated
Balance Sheets as
of December 31, 2017 and 2016



F-2












Consolidated
Statements of Operations -
years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016



F-3














Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive (Loss) Income -
years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016


F-4












Consolidated
Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity
-
years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016



F-5












Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows -
years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016



F-6














Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements



F-7






(b)
Exhibits:









Number 







Exhibit





3.1






Articles
of Incorporation (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3(i) to
the Companys Annual Report on Form10-K for the year
ended December31, 1997)





3.2






Certificate
of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation (incorporated by
reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Companys Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001)





3.3






Amended
and Restated Bylaws (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3(iii)
to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 29,
2013)





3.4






Amendment
to Bylaws dated December 9, 2015 (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 3.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed
December 10, 2015)





10.1+






2007
Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
reference from Annex F to the Companys Definitive Proxy
Statement on Schedule 14A filed April 5, 2007, relating to the 2007
annual stockholders meeting)





10.2+






Form
of 2007 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Agreement
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.6 to the Companys
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2012)




10.3+






2007
Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Annex G
to the Companys Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A
filed April 5, 2007, relating to the 2007 annual
stockholders meeting)





10.4+






Amendment
to the RELM Wireless Corporation 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan,
effective as of March 17, 2017 (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K
filed March 21, 2017)





10.5+






Form
of 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan Stock Option Agreement
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to the
Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2012)





10.6






Loan
and Security Agreement, dated as of October23, 2008, by and
among Silicon Valley Bank, RELM Wireless Corporation and RELM
Communications, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1
to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 28,
2008)





10.7






First
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of
October20, 2010, by and among Silicon Valley Bank, RELM
Wireless Corporation and RELM Communications, Inc. (incorporated by
reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report
on Form 8-K filed on October 20, 2010)





10.8






Second
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of June22,
2011, by and among Silicon Valley Bank, RELM Wireless Corporation
and RELM Communications, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on June 22, 2011)





10.9






Third
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of December 18,
2012, by and among Silicon Valley Bank, RELM Wireless Corporation
and RELM Communications, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on December 19, 2012)





10.1






Fourth
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of January 28,
2015 and effective as of December 31, 2014, by and among Silicon
Valley Bank, RELM Wireless Corporation and RELM Communications,
Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 28,
2015)





10.11






Fifth
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of December 29,
2015, by and among Silicon Valley Bank, RELM Wireless Corporation
and RELM Communications, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on December 30, 2015)





10.12






Sixth
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of January 17,
2017 and effective as of December 28, 2016, by and among Silicon
Valley Bank, RELM Wireless Corporation and RELM Communications,
Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 18,
2017)







32















10.13






Seventh
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of January 8,
2018 and effective as of December 27, 2017, by and among Silicon
Valley Bank, RELM Wireless Corporation and RELM Communications,
Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 9,
2018)





10.14+






Executive
Change of Control Agreement, dated and effective as of February 24,
2016, by and between RELM Wireless Corporation and Timothy A. Vitou
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys
Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 2017)





10.15+






Executive
Change of Control Agreement, dated and effective as of February 24,
2016, by and between RELM Wireless Corporation and David P. Storey
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys
Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 25, 2016)





10.16+






Executive
Change of Control Agreement, dated and effective as of February 24,
2016, by and between RELM Wireless Corporation and William P. Kelly
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the Companys
Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 25, 2016)





10.17+






Executive
Change of Control Agreement, dated and effective as of February 24,
2016, by and between RELM Wireless Corporation and James E. Gilley
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Companys
Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 25, 2016)





10.18+






Separation
and Release Agreement, executed February 3, 2017, by and between
RELM Wireless Corporation and David P. Storey (incorporated by
reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report
on Form 8-K filed February 6, 2017)





10.19+






RELM
Wireless Corporation 2017 Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated
by reference from Exhibit 4.5 to the Companys Registration
Statement on Form S-8 filed June 15, 2017)





10.20+






Form
of Stock Option Agreement under the RELM Wireless Corporation 2017
Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
4.6 to the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed
June 15, 2017)





10.21+






Form
of Restricted Share Agreement under the RELM Wireless Corporation
2017 Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 4.7 to the Companys Registration Statement on Form
S-8 filed June 15, 2017)





10.22+






Form
of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the RELM Wireless
Corporation 2017 Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by
reference from Exhibit 4.8 to the Companys Registration
Statement on Form S-8 filed June 15, 2017)




21






Subsidiaries
of the Company*




23.1






Consent
of Moore Stephens Lovelace, P.A. (relating to RELM Wireless
Corporations Registration Statements on FormS-8)
(Registration No.333-218765 and Registration
No.333-147354)*



24






Power
of Attorney (included on signature page)




31.1






Certification
Pursuant to Item 601(b)(31) of Regulation S-K, as adopted pursuant
to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*




31.2






Certification
Pursuant to Item 601(b)(31) of Regulation S-K, as adopted pursuant
to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*




32.1






Certification
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (furnished
pursuant to Item 601(b)(32) of RegulationS-K)**




32.2






Certification
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (furnished pursuant to Item
601(b)(32) of Regulation S-K)**




101.INS






XBRL
Instance Document*




101.SCH






XBRL
Taxonomy Extension Schema Document*




101.CAL






XBRL
Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document*




101.LAB






XBRL
Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document*




101.PRE






XBRL
Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document*




101.DEF






XBRL
Taxonomy Definition Linkbase Document*









*
Included
with this filing





**
Furnished
herewith (not filed)





+
Each
management contract or compensatory plan or
arrangement.





(c)
Consolidated
Financial Statement Schedules:




All
schedules have been omitted because they are inapplicable or not
material, or the information called for thereby is included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto.


Item
16.Form 10-K Summary


None.






33















SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the
requirements of Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized
in the City of West Melbourne, Florida, on the 6th day of
March,2018.










RELM WIRELESS CORPORATION

















By:



/s/
Timothy A. Vitou










Timothy
A. Vitou










President




















POWER OF ATTORNEY


Each
person whose signature appears below hereby constitutes and
appoints Timothy A. Vitou and William P. Kelly and each of them,
his attorneys-in-fact, each with the power of substitution, for him
and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to
sign this annual report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments to
this report on Form10-K, and to file the same, with all
exhibits thereto and all documents in connection therewith, with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them full power and
authority to do and perform each and every act and all intents and
purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that such attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them or his or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.


Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.







SIGNATURE







TITLE







DATE




/s/ D.
Kyle Cerminara



D. Kyle
Cerminara








Chairman
of the Board






March6,
2018




/s/
Timothy A. Vitou



Timothy
A. Vitou








President
(Principal Executive Officer)






March6,
2018




/s/
William P. Kelly



William
P. Kelly








Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial
Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)






March6,
2018




/s/
Charles T. Lanktree



Charles
T. Lanktree








Director






March6,
2018




/s/ E.
Gray Payne



E. Gray
Payne








Director






March6,
2018




/s/
John W. Struble



John W.
Struble








Director






March6,
2018




/s/
Michael R. Dill



Michael
R. Dill








Director






March6,
2018




/s/
Lewis M. Johnson



Lewis
M. Johnson








Director






March
6, 2018




/s/
Ryan R.K. Turner



Ryan
R.K. Turner






Director






March
6, 2018








34









